scripts/external_apis/enphase/README.adoc, before:

Enphase Monitor for dummy-ups
=============================

The Enphase Monitor is a `bash` script that queries the local IQ Gateway's
API, and makes "Grid On/Off" and Battery State-Of-Charge status
available to NUT's `dummy-ups` driver by updating its "port" file
(see the linkman:dummy-ups[8] man page).

The `enphase-monitor` script supports the following:

 - auto-login to 'enlighten.enphaseenergy.com' to generate and auto-renew
   tokens for local Gateway API access (tokens are cached until expiration)
 - retains any (non-generated) values in the "port" file
 - gracefully handles split-phase or 3-phase input/output values
 - calculates derived values such as battery voltage, runtime and `ups.load`
 - handles no-comms with temporary rename of the port file (indicates
   "stale data")
 - dedicated configuration file (for login, API query timing, etc.)
 - enforces access permissions on files containing secrets
 - is fully self-documented (leading comment in the script included below)
 - GPLv3 licensed
 - minimal requirements: `bash`, `jq`, `base64` and `curl`
 - includes a sample instantiated systemd service for use with `dummy-ups`
 - includes a "TEST" mode that loops through various states and
   randomly expires the token

Developed by Scott Shambarger <devel@shambarger.net>

Documentation
-------------

The script is self-documented, but the following is the script's leading
comments block with installation instructions and configuration reference:

----
Usage: enphase-monitor [ <options> ] -c <config> | <ups>

  -c <config> - use named config-file (or set $CONFIG_FILE)
  <ups> - use config-file /etc/ups/enphase-<ups>.conf (or set $UPS)

<options> may include:
  -d - increase debug to stderr (2+ exposes secrets!)
  -h - show help and exit
  -s - perform one network check and exit
  -v - verbose output
  -x - set 'nocomms' and exit"

<config> must contain:

  USERNAME=<enphase login>
  PASSWORD=<enphase password>
  SERIAL=<envoy serial#>
  PORT_FILE=<portfile from ups.conf, see below>

and optionally (defaults shown):

  DISABLE_METERS= any value to disable power reporting
  ENVOY_HOST="envoy.local" ip/hostname of IQ Gateway on local network
  STATE_DIR="/var/lib/ups" writable directory for portfile/tokens
  POLLFREQ=60 seconds between API queries, min 5
  POLLFREQALERT=20 seconds between API queries when on battery, min 5
  TOKEN_FILE="enphase-<ups>.token" path defaults to STATE_DIR
  LOADKWH=768 max load/1kWh capacity, used for ups.load calculation
                0 disables calc (default based on IQ 5P rate 3.84kVA/5kWh)
  LOGIN_TIMEOUT=10 timeout (secs) for login/token gen, min 5
  API_TIMEOUT=5 timeout (secs) for local ENVOY_HOST api access, min 2

Add section to /etc/ups/ups.conf for your <ups> name (replace <XXX>)

[<ups>]
  driver = dummy-ups
  port = <STATE_DIR>/<portfile> this should be an absolute path!
  mode = dummy-once or name <portfile> with `.dev` extension
  desc = "Enphase IQ Gateway"

<portfile> MUST EXIST before running the monitor (to ensure it's running
on the correct machine). The following entries are optional but
used if specified (defaults shown); other non-generated entries are retained.

  battery.charge.low: 20
  battery.voltage.high: 86.4
  battery.voltage.nominal: 76.8
  battery.voltage.low: 68.5
  device.mfr: Enphase Energy
  device.model: IQ Gateway

The monitor uses the enphase <login> + <serial#> to retrieve a long-term
token and saves it in STATE_DIR (token renewal is handled automatically)

The monitor then queries the ENVOY_HOST (local IQ Gateway) API at POLLFREQ
intervals to retrieve the envoy state, and updates <portfile>.
Using values retrieved from the API and settings above, the monitor
calculates the values ups.load, battery.voltage and battery.runtime

enphase-monitor needs to have write access to <portfile>, so usually
upsd hosting <ups> should be on local host, but shared filesystems may
allow upsd to be remote.

NOTE: if connections to ENVOY_HOST fail, <portfile> is renamed
<portfile>-nocomms to trigger dummy-ups to show stale data.
Either filename may exist on startup.

Environment (optional):
  CONFIG_FILE - override default <config>
  UPS - set a default <ups>
  NUT_SYSCONFIG - default <config> directory (/etc/ups)
  NUT_LOCALSTATE - default for STATE_DIR (/var/lib/ups)

=== INSTALL ===

Install required support programs: bash, base64, jq, and curl

Create an entry in /etc/ups/ups.conf (as above)

Copy enphase-monitor to some <INSTALL-DIR> (eg /usr/local/libexec)

Create a <config> file with required variables.  If only <ups>
used to start the monitor, is looks for `/etc/ups/enphase-<ups>.conf`
Ensure <config> can be read by monitor and is not world readable!

Choose a NUT writable directory for STATE_DIR (default /var/lib/ups),
and create an empty <portfile> there:

 $ touch <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>
 $ chown <nut-user>:<nut-group> <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>

If using SELinux, ensure NUT's dummy-ups has access to the <portfile>
(even in /var/lib/ups!) by adding a label, eg.

  $ semanage fcontext -a -t nut_conf_t <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>
  $ restoreconf -F <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>

Create a systemd template file (replace <XXX> items)

 --- /etc/systemd/system/enphase-monitor@.service ---
 [Unit]
 Description=Enphase API monitor for NUT dummy-ups %I
 PartOf=nut-driver.target
 Before=nut-driver@%i.service

 [Service]
 SyslogIdentifier=%N
 User=<NUT-USER>
 ExecStartPre=<INSTALL-PATH>/enphase-monitor -s %I
 ExecStart=<INSTALL-PATH>/enphase-monitor %I
 Type=exec
 Restart=always
 RestartSec=30

 [Install]
 WantedBy=nut-driver@%i.service
 --- end of file ---

Enable the instance for <ups>

  $ systemctl daemon-reload
  $ systemctl enable nut-driver@<ups>
  $ systemctl enable enphase-monitor@<ups>

Restart NUT :)

=== TEST MODE ===

If using the distributed `test.conf`, copy `test-ref.dev` to `test.dev`
and then run:

  $ ./enphase-monitor -c test.conf

`test.conf` sets "UPS=test" and "STATE_DIR=." and PORT_FILE="test.dev"
(so token/portfiles are located in the current directory)
It also sets "DEBUG=1" to show debug output (optional), and POLLFREQ
to a few secs.

"TEST" mode will loop (and randomly expire the token):

  online -> nocomms -> online -> onbatt -> lowbatt <- <repeat>

A "TEST" mode <config> should set:

  TEST=1 <- required for "TEST" mode
  TEST_SESS=<json> use {"session_id":"some-value"}
  TEST_TOKEN=<web-token> JWT token, should have valid expires!
  TEST_RELAY=<json> ivp/ensemble/relay {"mains_oper_state":"@RELAY_STATE@"}
  TEST_LIVE=<json> ivp/livedata/status, {"soc":"@BATT_SOC@"}
  TEST_REPORTS=<json> ivp/meters/reports
  TEST_SECCTRL=<json> ivp/ensemble/secctrl, {"soc_recovery_exit":10}
  TEST_INFO=<xml> info.xml

Output from real HTTP requests can be used (use "-d -d" to see output)
for each of those APIs.  Any empty TEST_XXXX value simulates a
failed API query.
----

Commit message:

scripts/external_apis/enphase/README.adoc: update about tmpfs or not for the enphase data file [#2813]
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

scripts/external_apis/enphase/README.adoc, after:

Enphase Monitor for dummy-ups
=============================

The Enphase Monitor is a `bash` script that queries the local IQ Gateway's
API, and makes "Grid On/Off" and Battery State-Of-Charge status
available to NUT's `dummy-ups` driver by updating its "port" file
(see the linkman:dummy-ups[8] man page).

NOTE: Location where we write the data file for `dummy-ups` to process and
publish should not be in a temporary file system, as we may inherit some
manually added data points in the file that we want to retain across reboots.
On systems with wear-prone storage (flash/SSD), you can fiddle with a
"manually-made" file that would be copied into a tmpfs mount point, and
have the script (and `dummy-ups` driver) pick up *that* tmpfs location
with initially inherited data points.

The `enphase-monitor` script supports the following:

 - auto-login to 'enlighten.enphaseenergy.com' to generate and auto-renew
   tokens for local Gateway API access (tokens are cached until expiration)
 - retains any (non-generated) values in the "port" file
 - gracefully handles split-phase or 3-phase input/output values
 - calculates derived values such as battery voltage, runtime and `ups.load`
 - handles no-comms with temporary rename of the port file (indicates
   "stale data")
 - dedicated configuration file (for login, API query timing, etc.)
 - enforces access permissions on files containing secrets
 - is fully self-documented (leading comment in the script included below)
 - GPLv3 licensed
 - minimal requirements: `bash`, `jq`, `base64` and `curl`
 - includes a sample instantiated systemd service for use with `dummy-ups`
 - includes a "TEST" mode that loops through various states and
   randomly expires the token

Developed by Scott Shambarger <devel@shambarger.net>

Documentation
-------------

The script is self-documented, but the following is the script's leading
comments block with installation instructions and configuration reference:

----
Usage: enphase-monitor [ <options> ] -c <config> | <ups>

  -c <config> - use named config-file (or set $CONFIG_FILE)
  <ups> - use config-file /etc/ups/enphase-<ups>.conf (or set $UPS)

<options> may include:
  -d - increase debug to stderr (2+ exposes secrets!)
  -h - show help and exit
  -s - perform one network check and exit
  -v - verbose output
  -x - set 'nocomms' and exit"

<config> must contain:

  USERNAME=<enphase login>
  PASSWORD=<enphase password>
  SERIAL=<envoy serial#>
  PORT_FILE=<portfile from ups.conf, see below>

and optionally (defaults shown):

  DISABLE_METERS= any value to disable power reporting
  ENVOY_HOST="envoy.local" ip/hostname of IQ Gateway on local network
  STATE_DIR="/var/lib/ups" writable directory for portfile/tokens
  POLLFREQ=60 seconds between API queries, min 5
  POLLFREQALERT=20 seconds between API queries when on battery, min 5
  TOKEN_FILE="enphase-<ups>.token" path defaults to STATE_DIR
  LOADKWH=768 max load/1kWh capacity, used for ups.load calculation
                0 disables calc (default based on IQ 5P rate 3.84kVA/5kWh)
  LOGIN_TIMEOUT=10 timeout (secs) for login/token gen, min 5
  API_TIMEOUT=5 timeout (secs) for local ENVOY_HOST api access, min 2

Add section to /etc/ups/ups.conf for your <ups> name (replace <XXX>)

[<ups>]
  driver = dummy-ups
  port = <STATE_DIR>/<portfile> this should be an absolute path!
  mode = dummy-once or name <portfile> with `.dev` extension
  desc = "Enphase IQ Gateway"

<portfile> MUST EXIST before running the monitor (to ensure it's running
on the correct machine). The following entries are optional but
used if specified (defaults shown); other non-generated entries are retained.

  battery.charge.low: 20
  battery.voltage.high: 86.4
  battery.voltage.nominal: 76.8
  battery.voltage.low: 68.5
  device.mfr: Enphase Energy
  device.model: IQ Gateway

The monitor uses the enphase <login> + <serial#> to retrieve a long-term
token and saves it in STATE_DIR (token renewal is handled automatically)

The monitor then queries the ENVOY_HOST (local IQ Gateway) API at POLLFREQ
intervals to retrieve the envoy state, and updates <portfile>.
Using values retrieved from the API and settings above, the monitor
calculates the values ups.load, battery.voltage and battery.runtime

enphase-monitor needs to have write access to <portfile>, so usually
upsd hosting <ups> should be on local host, but shared filesystems may
allow upsd to be remote.

NOTE: if connections to ENVOY_HOST fail, <portfile> is renamed
<portfile>-nocomms to trigger dummy-ups to show stale data.
Either filename may exist on startup.

Environment (optional):
  CONFIG_FILE - override default <config>
  UPS - set a default <ups>
  NUT_SYSCONFIG - default <config> directory (/etc/ups)
  NUT_LOCALSTATE - default for STATE_DIR (/var/lib/ups)

=== INSTALL ===

Install required support programs: bash, base64, jq, and curl

Create an entry in /etc/ups/ups.conf (as above)

Copy enphase-monitor to some <INSTALL-DIR> (eg /usr/local/libexec)

Create a <config> file with required variables.  If only <ups>
used to start the monitor, is looks for `/etc/ups/enphase-<ups>.conf`
Ensure <config> can be read by monitor and is not world readable!

Choose a NUT writable directory for STATE_DIR (default /var/lib/ups),
and create an empty <portfile> there:

 $ touch <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>
 $ chown <nut-user>:<nut-group> <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>

If using SELinux, ensure NUT's dummy-ups has access to the <portfile>
(even in /var/lib/ups!) by adding a label, eg.

  $ semanage fcontext -a -t nut_conf_t <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>
  $ restoreconf -F <STATE_DIR>/<portfile>

Create a systemd template file (replace <XXX> items)

 --- /etc/systemd/system/enphase-monitor@.service ---
 [Unit]
 Description=Enphase API monitor for NUT dummy-ups %I
 PartOf=nut-driver.target
 Before=nut-driver@%i.service

 [Service]
 SyslogIdentifier=%N
 User=<NUT-USER>
 ExecStartPre=<INSTALL-PATH>/enphase-monitor -s %I
 ExecStart=<INSTALL-PATH>/enphase-monitor %I
 Type=exec
 Restart=always
 RestartSec=30

 [Install]
 WantedBy=nut-driver@%i.service
 --- end of file ---

Enable the instance for <ups>

  $ systemctl daemon-reload
  $ systemctl enable nut-driver@<ups>
  $ systemctl enable enphase-monitor@<ups>

Restart NUT :)

=== TEST MODE ===

If using the distributed `test.conf`, copy `test-ref.dev` to `test.dev`
and then run:

  $ ./enphase-monitor -c test.conf

`test.conf` sets "UPS=test" and "STATE_DIR=." and PORT_FILE="test.dev"
(so token/portfiles are located in the current directory)
It also sets "DEBUG=1" to show debug output (optional), and POLLFREQ
to a few secs.

"TEST" mode will loop (and randomly expire the token):

  online -> nocomms -> online -> onbatt -> lowbatt <- <repeat>

A "TEST" mode <config> should set:

  TEST=1 <- required for "TEST" mode
  TEST_SESS=<json> use {"session_id":"some-value"}
  TEST_TOKEN=<web-token> JWT token, should have valid expires!
  TEST_RELAY=<json> ivp/ensemble/relay {"mains_oper_state":"@RELAY_STATE@"}
  TEST_LIVE=<json> ivp/livedata/status, {"soc":"@BATT_SOC@"}
  TEST_REPORTS=<json> ivp/meters/reports
  TEST_SECCTRL=<json> ivp/ensemble/secctrl, {"soc_recovery_exit":10}
  TEST_INFO=<xml> info.xml

Output from real HTTP requests can be used (use "-d -d" to see output)
for each of those APIs.  Any empty TEST_XXXX value simulates a
failed API query.
----
