.TH BCMXCP_USB 8 "Sun Sep 19 2004" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
bcmxcp \- Experimental driver for UPS'es supporting the BCM/XCP protocol over USB
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
bcmxcp_usb driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).
This driver is a variant of the serial driver bcmxcp and uses the same core code.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver should recognize all BCM/XCP-compatible UPS'es that are connected
via USB.  It has been developed and tested on Powerware PW3501 hardware. It also has
been tested on PW5110 hardware.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

This driver supports the following optional settings in the    
\fBups.conf\fR(5).

.IP "shutdown_delay=\fIdelay\fR"
The number of seconds that the UPS should wait between receiving the 
shutdown command and actually shutting off.

.SH DEFAULT VALUES FOR THE EXTRA ARGUMENTS
.IP "shutdown_delay = \fI120\fR"

.SH INSTANT COMMANDS
This driver supports the following Instant Commands:

.IP "shutdown.return"
Turn off the load and return when power is back. 

.IP "shutdown.stayoff"
Turn off the load and remain off.

.IP "test.battery.start"
Start a battery test.

.SH TODO LIST

.IP "Report UPS alarm status"
BCM/XCP supports reporting a wide range of UPS alarm conditions.

.IP "Report UPS statistics informations"
BCM/XCP supports reporting of UPS statistics data.

.SH EXPERIMENTAL DRIVER
This driver has been tagged experimental, even if it has been reported
to be stable. Thus it is not suitable for production systems and it is
not built by default. This is mainly due to the fact that it is a
new driver.

.SH INSTALLATION
This driver is not built by default.  You can build it by using
"configure \-\-with\-usb=yes". Note that it will also install other USB
drivers.

You also need to install manually the hotplug files (libhidups and
libhid.usermap), generally in etc/hotplug/usb/, to address the
permission settings problem. Lastly note that the libhidups file
must have execution flag set (ie using chmod +x ...).

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
bcmxcp_usb only supports 1 UPS at this time. You can put the
"auto" value for port in \fBups.conf\fR, i.e.:

.nf
	[pw3105]
		driver = bcmxcp_usb
		port = auto
.fi

.SH KNOWN ISSUES AND BUGS
.SS "Got EPERM: Operation not permitted upon driver startup"

You have forgotten to install the hotplug files, as explained
in the INSTALLATION section above. Don't forget to restart
hotplug so that it applies these changes.

.SH AUTHOR
Tore \[/O]rpetveit <tore@orpetveit.net>,
Wolfgang Ocker <weo@weo1.de>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
