.TH "BCMXCP" "8" "Wed Dec 31 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH "NAME"
bcmxcp \- Driver for UPS'es supporting the serial BCM/XCP protocol
.SH "NOTE"
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
bcmxcp driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH "SUPPORTED HARDWARE"
This driver should recognize all serial BCM/XCP\-compatible UPS'es.  It has
been developed and tested on Powerware PW5115 and PW9120 hardware. If your UPS
has a USB connection, you may also consult the \fBbcmxcp_usb\fR(8) driver
documentation.

.SH "EXTRA ARGUMENTS"
This driver supports the following optional settings in the    
\fBups.conf\fR(5).

.IP "shutdown_delay=\fIdelay\fR"
The number of seconds that the UPS should wait between receiving the 
shutdown command (upsdrvctl shutdown) and actually shutting off.

.IP "baud_rate=\fIrate\fR"
Communication speed for the UPS. If this is set to 9600, it try to connect
to the UPS on 9600bps. If it fails to communicate, it go into baudhunting.
It start at 1200 and up to 19200. If it succeed it tell you the speed it
connect with. If not included in the config it default's to baudhunting.
 
.SH "DEFAULT VALUES FOR THE EXTRA ARGUMENTS"
.IP "shutdown_delay = \fI120\fR"
.IP "baud_rate = \fInone\fR"
.SH "INSTANT COMMANDS"
This driver supports the following Instant Commands:

.IP "shutdown.return"
Turn off the load and return when power is back. 

.IP "shutdown.stayoff"
Turn off the load and remain off.

.IP "test.battery.start"
Start a battery test.

.IP "outlet.n.shutdown.return"
Turn off the load on outlet "n" and return when power is back.
 ( n is the outlet number reported by the upsc command ) 

.SH "TODO LIST"
.IP "Report UPS statistics informations"
BCM/XCP supports reporting of UPS statistics data.

.IP "Change settings"
Access the config register to change settings.

.SH "BUGS"
None known.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Tore \[/O]rpetveit <tore@orpetveit.net>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS The USB BCM/XCP driver:
\fBbcmxcp_usb\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
