.TH BESTUPS 8 "Wed Jul 28 2004" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
bestups \- Driver for Best Power / SOLA (Phoenixtec protocol) UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
bestups driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
bestups was designed to monitor Best Power UPS hardware like the Fortress,
Fortress Telecom, Axxium Rackmount and Patriot Pro.  It also recognizes
and supports SOLA units such as the 325, 520 and 620.  In addition, the 
Best 610 is supported using the `ID' option.

Other UPS hardware using the Phoenixtec protocol should also work, but
they will generate a warning since their battery information is not known.

This driver does not support some older Best/SOLA units.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "nombattvolt=\fInum\fR"

Override the battery float voltage which is normally determined by
asking the hardware.  This is useful if your UPS constantly reports
battery.charge values just below 100% even when it's completely charged.

If you have this problem, set this to whatever battery.voltage reports
when the UPS is known to be completely charged with a good battery.

The author's Best Fortress 750 uses nombattvolt=27.4.

.IP "battvoltmult=\fInum\fR"

Multiply the reported battery voltage by this number. Some devices
report only a fraction of the total battery voltage.

For example, the SOLA 610 700VA UPS (with a 24V battery) reports the
single cell voltage (about 2.27V when fully charged). In this particular
case you can set 'battvoltmult = 12' in \fBups.conf\fR(8) to fix this.

.IP "ID=\fIstring\fR"

Set the Identification response string.  This should only be used
with hardware that supports the Phoenixtec protocol status inquiry 
commands, but not the "ID" command, such as the Best/SOLA 610.  Format 
of the ID string is: AAA,BBBB,CCC,DDD,EE.E,FF.F

AAA is the three-character identification for the UPS model.

BBBB is the output power in VA (volt amperes). B is an integer number 
ranging from 0 to 9.

CCC is the Nominal Input Voltage. C is an integer number ranging from 0 
to 9. The unit is Volts AC.

DDD is the Nominal Output Voltage. D is an integer number ranging from 0 
to 9. The unit is Volts AC.

EE.E is the Battery Voltage that will cause the UPS to shut itself off. 
E is an integer number ranging from 0 to 9. Then unit is Volts DC and a 
decimal point is present.

FF.F or FFF.F is the Battery Voltage at full charge. F is an integer 
number ranging from 0 to 9. Then unit is Volts DC. Typically, for 700VA, 
1KVA and 1.5KVA units, the format is FF.F. For 2KVA and 3KVA units, the 
format is FFF.F.

Example: a Best 610 1.5KVA unit would use the string 
"610,1500,120,120,10.0,48.0".

.SH BUGS

The battery charge percentage value (in battery.charge) is derived from
the voltage data that the UPS returns, since the UPS doesn't return that
value directly.  On some hardware, the charge will remain at 100% for a
long time and then drops quickly shortly before the battery runs out.
You can confirm from the battery.voltage readings that this is a problem
with the UPS and not this driver. 

Similarly, the float from the charger in some models forces the battery
charge percentage back up to 100% immedately after the UPS goes back
on\(hyline, so you can't tell when it is really recharged.

Finally, some models give one value for the battery's nominal voltage and
yet actually have a nominal voltage slightly below that.  This leads to
things such as the perpetual 98.7% charge on the author's Fortress 750,
even when it's been charging for weeks.  You can use nombattvolt= in 
\fBups.conf\fR(8) to fix this.

.SH AUTHOR
Russell Kroll, Jason White

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
