.TH DUMMY-UPS 8 "Sun Nov 16 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
dummy-ups \- Driver for multi purpose UPS emulation

.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the specific features of the
dummy-ups driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is a multi purpose UPS emulation tool.
Its behavior depends on the running mode:

.IP "Dummy mode"

looks like a standard UPS driver to \fBupsd\fR(8) and 
allows you to set any value for testing purposes.  It is interactive,
controllable through the \fBupsrw\fR(1) and \fBupscmd\fR(1) commands, or an
equivalent graphical tool. It can be configured, launched and used as any other
real driver.  This mode is mostly useful for testing purposes.

.IP "Repeater mode"

acts as a NUT client, simply forwarding data. This can be useful for supervision
purposes. This can also allow some load sharing between several UPS instances,
using a point\(hyto\(hypoint communication with the UPS.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The port specification depends on the running mode, and allows the automatic
guessing of it.

.IP "Dummy mode"

Port is a definition file name for dummy-ups. This can either
be an absolute or a relative path name. In the latter case the NUT
sysconfig directory (ie /etc/nut, /usr/local/ups/etc, ...) is prepended.

This file, generally named something.dev, contains a list of all
valid data and associated values, and has the same format as an upsc
dump (<varname>: <value>). So you can easilly create definition
files from an existing UPS using "upsc > file.dev".

.IP "Repeater mode"

Port is the name of a remote UPS, using the NUT form, ie:

	<upsname>[@<hostname>[:<port>]]

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
You will need add to at least one entry in \fBups.conf\fR(5) like:

.nf
[dummy]
	driver = dummy-ups
	port = evolution500.dev
	desc = "dummy-ups in dummy mode"
.fi

.nf
[repeater]
	driver = dummy-ups
	port = ups@hostname
	desc = "dummy-ups in repeater mode"
.fi

You can declare as many entries, and so run multiple instances, as you need.

.SH INTERACTION

Once the driver is loaded in dummy mode, you can set any variables, except those
of the driver.* and server.* collections.

In repeater mode, the driver acts according to the capabilities of the UPS, and
so support the same instant commands and settable values.

.SH BACKGROUND

This driver was written in one evening to replace the previous dummycons
testing driver. It was too limited and required to work from a terminal to
interact.

dummy-ups is useful for NUT client development, and other testing purpose.

It also helps the NUT Quality Assurance effort, in auto testing the
NUT framework.

It now offers a repeater mode. This will help in building the Meta UPS approach,
which allows to build a virtual device, composed of several other devices
(either UPS, PDUs).

.SH BUGS
Instant commands are not yet supported in Dummy Mode, and data need name /
value checking enforcement, as well as boundaries or enumeration definition.

.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Quette

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBupscmd\fR(1),
\fBupsrw\fR(1),
\fBups.conf\fR(5),
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
