.TH DUMMYCONS 8 "Mon Jul 14 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
dummycons \- Driver for testing UPS software

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dummycons [\fIport\fB]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program looks like a standard UPS driver to \fBupsd\fR(8) and 
allows you to set any value for testing purposes.  It is interactive,
and does not enter the background.

.SH ARGUMENTS
With no arguments, dummycons will assume a port name of "null".  
Otherwise, it will use the first argument that you supply as the port 
name.  This port name must match the one given in \fBups.conf\fR(5).

You can run multiple instances if needed, as long as they all have
different port names.

.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
By default, you get 5 variables preloaded with information when the
program starts.  They are:

	driver.name	= dummycons

	driver.version	= (varies)

	ups.mfr		= Console testing

	ups.model 	= Dummy UPS

	ups.status	= OL

To create more variables or change the existing values, use the (s)et
command.  These variables may be deleted with the (d)elete command.  The
(l)ist command will show everything that you have created.

Variables can contain spaces if you remember to quote them just like
in the config files.  That is, if you want to register both on battery and 
low battery, you need to do something like this:

	Command (? for help): s ups.status "OB LB"

Other commands are available, and follow this general pattern.  Use ? in
the program to see the full list.

.SH BACKGROUND

This driver was written in a bar one afternoon when I realized that I 
had neither Xdialog to run \fBdummyups\fR (since removed from the
tree) nor an actual UPS on hand.  It has also been used to debug things
like \fBupsmon\fR(8) in places where you could never have a UPS \(hy like
on a commercial airliner.

.SH BUGS

Instant commands and SET commands don't do anything useful.  You will
get a notice on the screen when it is received from upsd, but nothing
else happens.

This will need to change in the future when the infrastructure for
confirming these actions has been added.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBups.conf\fR(5)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
