.TH liebertgxt2 8 "Tue Nov 03 2009" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
liebertgxt2 \- Driver for Liebert GXT2 UPS, using the ESP2 serial protocol
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
liebertgxt2 driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
liebertgxt2 is experimental and will recognize only those models known to work. The driver will report the model it finds and abort if it is unknown. modelname= in ups.conf can be used to force the driver to accept the model as supported. 

The driver is incomplete but supports the numerious information fields and fields necessary to make the driver useful. Potentially useful features that aren't supported are shutdown and battery test - or any command that instructs the UPS to take some action. 

.SH CABLING

This driver expects to see 2400 baud serial data at the TX/RX pins. This driver was tested with an original cable.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "modelname=\fImodel\fR"
Force the model name of \fImodel\fR to be a supported model, giving you the chance to try this driver with your Liebert UPS.

.SH BUGS
Action commands are not supported, that includes battery test and shutdown.

.SH AUTHOR
Richard Gregory <r.gregory liv ac uk>. With additional information from
Spiros Ioannou.

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

Partial description of the ESP2 protocol: http://www.csc.liv.ac.uk/~greg/projects/liebertserial/
