.TH MEGATEC_USB 8 "Sun Mar 4 2007" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
megatec_usb \- Driver for Megatec protocol based USB UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
megatec_usb driver. For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

\fBNote.\fR This driver is experimental at the moment. It is currently being 
worked on and may change over time. However, it is stable in execution and 
does what is needed.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE

The megatec_usb driver is known to work with various UPSes from Krauler, Agiler,
and Upsonic (Ablerex interface). Others that use the Megatec protocol
may work, but haven't been tested.

This driver supports the USB versions of UPSs, if you have only serial interface then use the
straight \fBmegatec\fR(8) driver.

If you find that this driver does not work, and you are sure that your hardware speaks megatec protocol,
then you can easily extend this driver. However, you will need to do some analysis of the 
commands that are sent to the UPS. Please see the forums for discussions on this and how
to extend this driver.

.SH EXTENSIONS TO MEGATEC

This driver extends the standard \fBmegatec\fR(8) driver to work with certain UPSes that have 
a USB interface. These devices do not obey the normal rules for HID USB devices and therefore the 
\fBnewhidups\fR(8) driver will not work for them.

This driver takes the standard serial interface and passes this over USB to the UPS.
This means that most, but not all, commands available for the serial driver will 
work. For Krauler, Agiler, and Upsonic (with Ablerex interface) UPSes 
it appears to give very similar results to the serial interface. The
driver supports monitoring most of the usual UPS variables, and also
supports automatic shutdown. 

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

.IP "mfr=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS manufacturer name.

.IP "model=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS model name.

.IP "serial=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS serial number.

.IP "lowbatt=\fIfloat\fR"

Optional.  Low battery level (%). Overrides the hardware default level.

.IP "ondelay=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  Delay before the UPS is turned back on (minutes).

.IP "offdelay=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  Delay before the UPS is turned off (minutes).

.IP "battvolts=\fIfloat\fR:\fIfloat\fR"

Optional.  The battery voltage interval <empty:full> (volts).

.IP "vendor=\fIregex\fR"
.IP "product=\fIregex\fR"
.IP "vendorid=\fIregex\fR"
.IP "productid=\fIregex\fR"

Select a specific UPS, in case there is more than one connected via
USB. Each option specifies an extended regular expression (see
\fBregex(7)\fR) that must match the UPS's entire vendor/product/serial
string (minus any surrounding whitespace), or the whole 4-digit
hexadecimal code for vendorid and productid. Try \fB-DD\fR for
finding out the strings to match.

Examples: 

    \fB-x vendor="Foo.Corporation.*"\fR

    \fB-x vendorid=05b8\fR (Agiler)

    \fB-x product=".*(Smart|Back)-?UPS.*"\fR

.IP "bus=\fIregex\fR"

Select a UPS on a specific USB bus or group of busses. The argument is
a regular expression that must match the bus name where the UPS is
connected (e.g. bus="002", bus="00[2-3]"). 

.IP "subdriver=\fIstring\fR"

Select a serial-over-USB subdriver to use. You have a choice between "agiler" and "krauler" subdrivers currently.

.SH UPS COMMANDS

This driver supports some extra commands (see \fBupscmd\fR(8)):

.IP beeper.toggle
Toggle the UPS beeper. (Not available on some hardware.)

.IP load.on
Turn on the load immediately.

.IP load.off
Turn off the load immediately. (Not yet supported)

.IP reset.input.minmax
Reset minimum and maximum input voltage status. (Not yet supported)

.IP reset.watchdog
Restarts the UPS watchdog timeout. The watchdog is started if it isn't running,
which means the UPS shuts down one minute after this command is executed for
the last time, restarting one minute afterwards. To cancel the watchdog, run
the "shutdown.stop" command.

.IP shutdown.return
Turn off the load and return when power is back. (Not yet supported)

.IP shutdown.stayoff
Turn off the load and remain off. (Not yet supported)

.IP shutdown.stop
Stop a shutdown in progress.

.IP test.battery.start.deep
Perform a long battery test (Not available on some hardware.)

.IP test.battery.start
Perform a (10 second) battery test.

.IP test.battery.stop
Stop a running battery test. (Not available on some hardware.)

.SH USER VARIABLES

The behavior of the driver can be controlled by some user definable
variables (see \fBupsrw\fR(8)):

.IP ups.delay.shutdown
Interval to wait after shutdown with delay command (seconds)

.IP ups.delay.start
Interval to wait before (re)starting the load (seconds)

.SH KNOWN PROBLEMS

The battery charge (%) value is only a best-effort calculation and may be
incorrect, or non-existant, for some UPS models. In any case, you can always
resort to finding the voltages at which the battery becomes fully discharged
and fully charged, and specify them manually using the "battvolts" option.
If you do this, please notify the author of this driver.

Some UPS commands aren't supported by all models. In most cases, the driver
will send a message to the system log when the user tries to execute an
unsupported command. Unfortunately, some models don't even provide a way for
the driver to check for this, so the unsupported commands will silently
fail.

Some models report a bogus value for the beeper status (will always be
"enabled" or "disabled"). So, the "beeper.toggle" command may appear to have
no effect in the status reported by the driver when, in fact, it is working
fine.

The temperature value is also known to be bogus in some models.


.SH AUTHORS
Carlos Rodrigues <carlos.efr at mail.telepac.pt>
.br
Andrey Lelikov <nut-driver at lelik.org>
.br
Alexander Gordeev <lasaine at lvk.cs.msu.su>
.br
Jon Gough <jon.gough at eclipsesystems.com.au>

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBmegatec\fR(8), \fBnutupsdrv\fR(8), \fBupsc\fR(8), \fBupscmd\fR(8), \fBupsrw\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
