.TH MEGATEC 8 "Sat Jan 14 2006" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
megatec \- Driver for Megatec protocol based UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
megatec driver. For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE

The megatec driver is known to work with various UPSes from Blazer, Energy
Sistem, Fenton Technologies, Mustek and many others. The NUT compatibility
table lists all the known supported models. Keep in mind, however, that
other models not listed there may also be supported but haven't been tested.

On models with both a serial port (RS-232) and an USB port, only the serial
port is supported. Connecting a computer which does not have a serial
interface to the UPS serial port using a USB-to-serial converter should
work, provided the converter is supported by your operating system.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

This driver supports some extra parameters (see \fBups.conf\fR(5)):

.IP "mfr=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS manufacturer name.

.IP "model=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS model name.

.IP "serial=\fIstring\fR"

Optional.  Specify the UPS serial number.

.IP "offdelay=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  After receiving a shutdown command, the UPS will wait this many
minutes before turning off the load. Specify this if the UPS must remain online
for a short period of time after the computer has powered down. The default is 0
(turn off immediately).

.IP "ondelay=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  After turning off the load (see \fBoffdelay\fR), the UPS will wait at
least this many minutes before coming back online. If line power gets restored
before this delay expires, the UPS will wait until it does. If line power gets
restored after this delay expires, the UPS will power on the load immediately.
The default is 2 minutes.

.IP "lowbatt=\fIfloat\fR"

Optional.  Low battery level (%). Overrides the hardware default level. Cannot be
used if the driver is unable to calculate the charge percentage for your UPS
automatically (see \fBKNOWN PROBLEMS\fR) and the \fBbattvolts\fR parameter
isn't specified.

.IP "battvolts=\fIfloat\fR:\fIfloat\fR"

Optional.  The battery voltage interval (see \fBKNOWN PROBLEMS\fR).

.IP "battvoltmult=\fInum\fR"

Optional.  Multiply the reported battery voltage by this number. Some devices
report only a fraction of the total battery voltage. The default is 1.

.IP "dtr=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  Some UPS models need the DTR serial line set to a specific
state, either \fI0\fR or \fI1\fR. See also \fBrts\fR.

.IP "rts=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  Some UPS models need the RTS serial line set to a specific
state, either \fI0\fR or \fI1\fR. See also \fBdtr\fR.

.IP "ignoreoff"

Optional.  This option should be used if \fBupsc\fR(8) shows the UPS status
as OFF when it's clearly on. This will force the driver to ignore the OFF
status altogether.

.IP "sendpace=\fIint\fR"

Optional.  This option can be used to change the wait interval between each
character that is sent to the UPS, between 1 and 1000 milliseconds. Some models
may need this if the default interval (100 milliseconds) proves to be too long,
or too short. 

.SH UPS COMMANDS

This driver supports some instant commands (see \fBupscmd\fR(8)):

.IP beeper.toggle
Toggle the UPS beeper. (Not available on some hardware.)

.IP load.on
Turn on the load immediately.

.IP load.off
Turn off the load immediately (see \fBKNOWN PROBLEMS\fR).

.IP reset.input.minmax
Reset minimum and maximum input voltage status.

.IP reset.watchdog
Restarts the UPS watchdog timeout. The watchdog is started if it isn't running,
which means the UPS shuts down one minute after this command is executed for
the last time, restarting one minute afterwards. To cancel the watchdog, run
the "shutdown.stop" command.

.IP shutdown.return
Turn off the load and return when power is back. Uses the timers defined by
\fBondelay\fR and \fBoffdelay\fR.

.IP shutdown.stayoff
Turn off the load and remain off (see \fBKNOWN PROBLEMS\fR). Uses the timer defined by \fBoffdelay\fR.

.IP shutdown.stop
Stop a shutdown in progress.

.IP test.battery.start.deep
Perform a long battery test (Not available on some hardware.)

.IP test.battery.start
Perform a (10 second) battery test.

.IP test.battery.stop
Stop a running battery test. (Not available on some hardware.)

.SH KNOWN PROBLEMS

The battery charge (%) value is only a best-effort calculation and may be
incorrect, or non-existant, for some UPS models. In any case, you can always
resort to finding the voltages at which the battery becomes fully discharged
and fully charged, and specify them manually using the "battvolts" option.
If you do this, please notify the author of this driver so that information
can be added to the NUT hardware compatibility list. Note that if you also
specified the "battvoltmult" option, you need to divide the found voltages
for fully discharged and fully charged by this number.

Some UPS commands aren't supported by all models. In most cases, the driver
will send a message to the system log when the user tries to execute an
unsupported command. Unfortunately, some models don't even provide a way for
the driver to check for this, so the unsupported commands will silently
fail.

Both the "load.off" and "shutdown.stayoff" instant commands are meant to
turn the load off indefinitely. However, some UPS models don't allow this.
When this is the case, the driver will tell the UPS to turn off the load for
9999 minutes (about 7 days) and a message will be sent to the system log.

Some models report a bogus value for the beeper status (will always be
"enabled" or "disabled"). So, the "beeper.toggle" command may appear to have
no effect in the status reported by the driver when, in fact, it is working
fine.

The temperature value is also known to be bogus in some models.

.SH AUTHOR
Carlos Rodrigues <carlos.efr at mail.telepac.pt>

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8), \fBupsc\fR(8), \fBupscmd\fR(8), \fBupsrw\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
