.TH mge\-shut 8 "Thu Jul 27 2006" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
mge\(hyshut \- Driver for MGE UPS serial SHUT Protocol UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
mge\(hyshut driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
mge\(hyshut support all recent MGE UPS models which use the SHUT (Serial HID
UPS Transfer) protocol at 2400 bps. Supported models are:

    Pulsar Ellipse S,
    Pulsar Ellipse USBS
    Pulsar Ellipse Premium S,
    Pulsar Ellipse Premium USBS
    Pulsar EXtreme C,
    Pulsar Esprit,
    Pulsar Evolution,
    NOVA AVR (Serial),
    Galaxy 3000 / PW (with RS232 HID COM ports card, ref 66066),
    Any recent MGE serial model...

Older models, such as Pulsar ESV+, Pulsar EX and Pulsar ES+, use the U\(hyTalk
protocol and should use the mge\(hyutalk driver.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the 
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "lowbatt=\fInum\fR"
Set the low battery warning threshold at which shutdown is initiated by
\fBupsmon\fR(8).
The factory default value is 30 (in percentage), and only be settable
depending on the exact model.

.IP "offdelay=\fInum\fR"
Set the timer before the UPS is turned off after the kill power command is
sent (via the \fI\-k\fR switch).
The default value is 20 (in seconds), and MUST BE LOWER than ondelay.

.IP "ondelay=\fInum\fR"
Set the timer for the UPS to switch on in case the power returns after the
kill power command had been sent but before the actual switch off. This
ensures the machines connected to the UPS are, in all cases, rebooted after
a power failure.
The default value is 3 (in 10 seconds unit, which means 30 seconds),
and MUST BE GREATER than offdelay.

IMPORTANT NOTE: some newer models express this value in seconds unit.
If you experience trouble with the UPS not restarting, please refer to the below "KNOWN ISSUES".

.IP "notification=\fInum\fR"
Set notification type to 1 (no), 2 (light) or 3 (yes).
The default value is 3 (yes) because of some early Ellipse models which
need it.

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.SS "Pulsar Ellipse S: Repetitive stale status \(hy Loss of communication"

Several users have reported "data stale" errors with Pulsar Ellipse 
equipment.  This lasts around 10 seconds and happens once every few hours.  
This is due to the fact that the SHUT protocol is verbose, and the driver 
sometimes does not handle all of it during the usual polling interval in 
upsd.  To solve this problem, change the value of MAXAGE to 25 in 
upsd.conf.  Also add "notification=3" in ups.conf (thanks to Julien 
Lesaint and Fabien).

.SS "The UPS doesn't restart after a power restoration"

The present mge-shut version lacks an exponent management.
This can lead to the UPS not restarting after the power restoration.
In such a case, try to express the ondelay in seconds (refer to the above ondelay description). A complete rewrite of this driver is underway for NUT 2.2, and will solve this issue.

.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Quette <aquette.dev@gmail.com>

Philippe Marzouk <philm@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

MGE UPS SYSTEMS SHUT protocol information: 
http://random.networkupstools.org/protocols/mge/
