.TH mge\-xml 8 "Wed Jan 10 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
mge\(hyxml \- Driver for MGE Network Management Card / Proxy (XML/HTTP Protocol) equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
mge\(hyxml driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
mge\(hyxml support all recent MGE models which use a Network Management Card
or Proxy (MGE XML/HTTP protocol based). This applies to both MGE Office Protection
Systems and to MGE UPS SYSTEMS. Supported card and proxy models are:

    NMC Minislot (Ref 66102),
    SNMP/Web Minislot card (Ref 66244)
    NMC Transverse (Ref 66074),
    NMC & Modbus/JBus (Ref 66103),
    Network Management Proxy. 

Older models, such as SNMP card (Ref 66062 and Ref 66045), use the SNMP
protocol and should use the snmp\(hyups driver with the "mibs=mge" parameter.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the 
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "login=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the login value for authenticated mode. This feature also needs the
password argument, and allows value settings in the card.
This feature is not yet implemented.

.IP "password=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the password value, needed with the login for authenticated mode.
This feature is not yet implemented.

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
The hostname of the UPS is specified with the "port" value in
\fBups.conf\fR, i.e.:

.nf
	[mgexml]
		driver = mge\-xml
		port = mge\-xml.example.com
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.SS Sponsored by MGE Office Protection Systems <http://www.mgeops.com/>
Arnaud Quette <aquette.dev@gmail.com> or <arnaudquette@eaton.com> 

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

