.TH netxml\-ups 8 "Fri Apr 04 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
netxml\(hyups \- Driver for MGE Network Management Card / Proxy (XML/HTTP
Protocol) equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
netxml\(hyups driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
netxml\(hyups support all recent MGE models which use a Network Management Card
or Proxy (MGE XML/HTTP protocol based). This applies to both MGE Office Protection
Systems and to MGE UPS SYSTEMS. Supported card and proxy models are:

    NMC Minislot (Ref 66102, firmware EA or newer),
    SNMP/Web Minislot card (Ref 66244)
    NMC Transverse (Ref 66074),
    NMC & Modbus/JBus (Ref 66103),
    Network Management Proxy. 

Older models, such as SNMP card (Ref 66062 and Ref 66045), use the SNMP
protocol and should use the snmp\(hyups driver with the "mibs=mge" parameter.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the 
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "timeout=\fIvalue\fR"
The timeout for connecting to and reading from the UPS. Defaults to 5 seconds.
Don't change this value unless you know exactly what you're doing.

This value \fBmust never\fR be higher than half the MAXAGE value specified in
\fBupsd.conf\fR(5), otherwise you risk that \fBupsd\fR(8) declares the driver
stale while it is waiting for a connection to timeout.

.IP "login=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the login value for authenticated mode. This feature also needs the
password argument, and allows value settings in the card.
This feature is not used yet.

.IP "password=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the password value, needed with the login for authenticated mode.
This feature is not used yet.

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
The hostname of the UPS is specified with the "port" value in
\fBups.conf\fR, i.e.:

.nf
	[mgexml]
		driver = netxml\-ups
		port = http://netxml\-ups.example.com:80
.fi

Specifying the method how to connect to the UPS (http, https) is mandatory.
If the port is equal to the default for the method specified (80 for http,
443 for https) it may be omitted.

In order not to overload older NMCs by polling them too frequently, it is
recommended to increase the "pollinterval" (see \fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)) and
\fBups.conf\fR(5)) to at least 5 seconds.

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Don't connect to the UPS through a proxy. Although it would be trivial to add
support for proxies, this is not recommended and don't ask for it. Not only
because it will prevent the driver to make a persistent connection to the UPS,
but also it adds an additional failure mode. If the proxy goes down (for
whatever reason), the driver will no longer be able to reach the UPS.

.SH AUTHORS
Arjen de Korte <adkorte-guest@alioth.debian.org>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
