.TH NUT.CONF 5 "Sun May 10 2009" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
nut.conf \- UPS definitions for Network UPS Tools

.SH DESCRIPTION

This file attempts to standardize the various files being found
in different installations, like /etc/default/nut on Debian based
systems and /etc/sysconfig/nut on RedHat based systems.

Distribution's init script should source this file in order to
determine which component(s) has to be started.

Blank lines are ignored. Lines with a hash ('#') character at the
1st position of the line are ignored too.  They can be used to add
comments.

.SH DIRECTIVES

.IP MODE
Required.  Recognized values are none, standalone, netserver and
netclient.  Defaults to none.

none: Indicates that NUT should not get started automatically,
possibly because it is not configured or that an Integrated Power
Management or some external system, is used to startup the NUT
components.

standalone: Addresses a local only configuration, with 1 UPS
protecting the local system.  This implies to start the 3 NUT
layers (driver, upsd and upsmon), with the related configuration
files.  This mode can also address UPS redundancy.

netserver: Like the standalone configuration, but also need some
more ACLs and possibly a specific LISTEN directive in upsd.conf.
Since this MODE is open to the network, a special care should be
applied to security concerns.

netclient: When only upsmon is required, possibly because
there are other hosts that are more closely attached to the UPS,
the MODE should be set to netclient.

.IP UPSD_OPTIONS
Optional.  Set upsd specific options. See \fBupsd\fR(8) for more
details.  It is ignored when MODE above indicates that no upsd
should be running.

.IP UPSMON_OPTIONS
Optional.  Set upsmon specific options. See \fBupsmon\fR(8) for
more details.  It is ignored when MODE above indicates that no
upsmon should be running.

.IP POWEROFF_WAIT
Optional.  At the end of an emergency system halt, the upsmon master
will signal the UPS to switch off.  This may fail for a number of
reasons.  Most notably is the case that mains power returns during
the shutdown process.  See the section "Power races" in
/usr/share/doc/nut/docs/shutdown.txt.gz.  The system will wait this
long for the UPS to cut power, and then reboot.  It should be long
enough to exhaust the batteries, in case line power continues to be
unavailable.  On the other hand, it should not be so long that the
system remains offline for an unreasonable amount of time if line
power has returned.  See \fBsleep\fR(1) for compatible time syntax.
If you specify the time in seconds, use the "s" suffix.

WARNING: this workaround might be dangerous under some circumstances.
Please read http://bugs.debian.org/358696 for more details.

.SH EXAMPLE

# /etc/nut/nut.conf.  See nut.conf(5)

MODE = none

UPSD_OPTIONS = ""

UPSMON_OPTIONS = ""

# POWEROFF_WAIT = 15m

.SH INTEGRATION

An init script, such as /etc/init.d/nut, is expected to source this
file in order to determine which component(s) has to be started.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBups.conf\fR(5), \fBupsd.conf\fR(5), \fBupsd.users\fR(5),
\fBupsmon.conf\fR(5)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
