.TH OPTIUPS 8 "Fri Jan 20 2006" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME  
optiups \- Driver for Opti-UPS (Viewsonic) UPS and Zinto D (ONLINE-USV) equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
optiups driver.  For information about the core driver, see  
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
optiups was originally written against a PowerES 280es in nut-0.45.  It was
revised for nut 2.0.1 and tested against a PowerES 420E.  It is expected to
work with at least the PowerES, PowerPS, and PowerVS models.

This driver additionally supports a Zinto D from ONLINE USV-Systeme AG
because of their very similar commands, but it's unknown if it also works
with other ups from them.

This driver will not work with the PowerES stock serial cable.  You will need
to construct your own three conductor cable:

.RS
UPS 6 -> PC 3
.RE
.RS
UPS 9 -> PC 2
.RE
.RS
UPS 4 -> PC 5
.RE

The cable for Online-USV uses pin UPS 7 (not UPS 4) -> PC 5.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "status_only"

Only poll for critical status information.  Without this, optiups (and
all nut drivers) poll all sorts of information from the UPS fairly often.
It is probably not often enough to hurt anything, so this option probably
is not very useful, unless you have a flaky serial connection or a highly
loaded machine.

.IP "nowarn_noimp"

Does not print warnings when the UPS reports that a variable is not
implemented or not pollable.  Without the option you will get a message
sent to your system logs each time nut polls the ups.  If you specify
\fBnowarn_noimp\fR, this message will only be logged once.

.IP "fake_lowbatt"

This forces the low battery flag true.  Without it, if you want to test your
UPS, you will have to unplug it and wait until the battery drops to a low/critical
voltage level before nut will respond and power down your system.  With the flag,
nut should power down the system soon after you pull the plug.  When you are done
testing, you should remove this flag.

.IP "powerup"

Zinto D from ONLINE-USV cannot be identified when switched to standby.
Set this flag to allow the driver to power-up your Zinto UPS.
This will also power-up your equipment connected to the ups!

.SH BUGS

On the 420E, ups.serial and ups.temperature are unsupported features.  This
is not a bug in nut or the nut driver, just the way things are with this UPS.

.SH AUTHOR
Russell Kroll, Scott Heavner, Matthias Goebl

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
