.TH powerman\-pdu 8 "Wed Dec 24 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
powerman-pdu \- Driver for Powerman PDU
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
powerman-pdu driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver supports a wide range of PDUs through the Powerman project.

This includes various models from APC, Baytech, Cyclades, but also support
IPMI and various blade management modules from HP, IBM and Sun.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver doesn't support any optional setting.

.SH VARIABLES
This driver doesn't (yet) support any changeable variable.

.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are available for each outlet, with X for the outlet
number:
.TP 12
.B outlet.X.load.on
power on the outlet.
.TP
.B outlet.X.load.off
power off the outlet.
.TP
.B outlet.X.load.cycle
cycle the outlet (power off then power on, possibly with a delay).
.PD

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
The hostname of the Powerman server is specified using the "port" value in
\fBups.conf\fR, i.e.:

.nf
	[pdu]
		driver = powerman\-pdu
		port = host.example.com:port
.fi

The port used to reach powermand is optional if the default port is used.

.SH KNOWN ISSUES
ups.status is still exposed, with the value "WAIT". Some other values from the
ups collection are also exposed.

.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Quette <arnaud.quette@gmail.com>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

The PowerMan home page: http://powerman.sourceforge.net/
