.TH SAFENET 8 "Mon Dec 29 2008" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
safenet \- Driver for SafeNet compatible UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
safenet driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver supports UPS equipment which can be controlled via
SafeNet v1.0 for Windows (serial interface only).

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "manufacturer=\fIvalue\fR"
Autodetection of this parameter is not possible yet (and it probably
never will be). Therefore, this user defined string accepts any name. The
default is \fIunknown\fR.

.IP "modelname=\fIvalue\fR"
Like manufacturer above. The default is \fIunknown\fR.

.IP "serialnumber=\fIvalue\fR"
Like manufacturer above. The default is \fIunknown\fR.

.IP "ondelay=\fIvalue\fR"
Time to wait before switching on the UPS (minutes). Defaults to 1 minute.

.IP "offdelay=\fIvalue\fR"
Time to wait before shutting down the UPS (seconds). Defaults to 30 seconds.

.SH UPSCMD
This driver supports some instant commands (see \fBupscmd\fR(8)):

.IP "test.battery.start"
Start UPS self test

.IP "test.battery.stop"
Cancel UPS self test

.IP "test.failure.start"
Start simulated power failure

.IP "test.failure.stop"
Cancel simulated power failure

.IP "beeper.enable"
Enable the UPS beeper

.IP "beeper.mute"
Temporarily mute the UPS beeper

.IP "beeper.toggle"
Toggle the UPS beeper

.IP "shutdown.return"
Turn off the load and wait for the power to return. Uses the timer
defined by \fBoffdelay\fR.

.IP "shutdown.reboot"
Turn off the load and return. Uses the timers defined by \fBoffdelay\fR
and \fBondelay\fR.

.SH KNOWN PROBLEMS
If you run the \fBshutdown.return\fR command with mains present, the output
may stay on or switch off and not back on again. The \fBshutdown.reboot\fR
command will unconditionally switch on the load again (with or without mains
present).

If the driver is called with the '\(hyk' option (or through \fBupsdrvctl
shutdown\fR) it tries to detect which command should be used in an attempt
to stay off until mains is present again or to cycle the output if the
power returned in the mean time. This isn't bullet proof and you should be
prepared that the power will either not be shutdown or that it doesn't
return when the power comes back.

.SH AUTHOR
Arjen de Korte <adkorte\(hyguest at alioth.debian.org>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
