.TH SKEL 8 "Sat Dec 23 2006" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.\" This line is a comment.
.\"
.\" When copying this man page for your new driver, be sure to replace all
.\" occurrances of "skel" and "SKEL" by your actual driver name.
.\"
.\" Another option is to embed the man page information into your driver source
.\" code.  See the tripplite_usb.c file for one way of doing this, using Perl's
.\" pod2man translator. The advantage of this is that you can keep the
.\" documentation near the source code, which may help remind you to update the
.\" documentation after changing the driver.
.\"
.\" On most systems, you can test the formatting of your man page by running:
.\"   man ./skel.8
.\" (the dot-slash tells man not to search its usual path.)
.\"
.\" After writing a man page, be sure to add it to the appropriate variable in
.\" Makefile.am in this directory.
.\"
.\" On many systems, you can find a reference to the man macros by typing
.\" 'man 7 man'.
.\"
.\" In the "NAME" section, you must follow the format below, including
.\" separating the driver name from its description by "\-". This is to ensure
.\" that the apropos(8) database is properly rebuilt.
.SH NAME
skel \- skeleton driver man page

.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
\fBskel\fR driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
.B skel
supports ...

.\" If the driver only works with certain cables, this is a good place to
.\" mention it:
.\" .SH CABLING

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver also supports the following optional settings:

.IP "option1=\fInum\fR"
Set the value of ... to \fInum\fR. Contrast with \fBoption2\fR.
 
.IP "option2=\fIstring\fR"
Some other option.

.\" Optional: list supported instant commands here:
.\" .SH INSTANT COMMANDS

.\" Optional: use INSTALLATION if you need special parameters to the configure
.\" script.
.\" .SH INSTALLATION

.\" You may leave this as "none known at this time", or describe any trouble
.\" encountered when implementing the protocol for your UPS.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES AND BUGS
.SS "Got EPERM: Operation not permitted upon driver startup"

You have forgotten to install the hotplug files, as explained
in the INSTALLATION section above. Don't forget to restart
hotplug so that it applies these changes.

.\" An email address is not strictly necessary, but you may wish to provide
.\" some form of contact information so that users can report bugs.
.SH AUTHORS
J. Random User <user@example.org>

.\" If this driver is ever made obsolete by another driver, mention the
.\" replacement driver in the "SEE ALSO" section. You may also wish to point
.\" the user to other drivers which may better support their hardware, if there
.\" is ambiguity based on the driver name.
.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
