.TH snmp\-ups 8 "Wed Sep 22 2010" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
snmp\(hyups \- Multi\(hyMIB Driver for SNMP UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
snmp\(hyups driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The snmp\(hyups driver automatically detects and supports a wide range of devices by loading various MIBS:
.IP "ietf:"
UPS that is RFC 1628 (UPS MIB) compliant, ie MGE UPS SYSTEMS, Liebert, perhaps others (default)
.IP "mge:"
MGE UPS SYSTEMS and MGE Office Protection Systems devices with SNMP cards (ref 66062, 66045, 66074 and 66244)
.IP "apcc:"
APC AP9606 APC Web/SNMP management card, perhaps others
.IP "netvision:"
Socomec Sicon UPS with Netvision Web/SNMP management card/external box
.IP "pw:"
Powerware devices with ConnectUPS SNMP cards
.IP "aphel_genesisII:"
Eaton Powerware ePDU Monitored
.IP "aphel_revelation:"
Eaton Powerware ePDU Managed
.IP "raritan:"
Various Raritan PDUs
.IP "baytech:"
Various BayTech PDUs
.IP "cpqpower:"
HP/Compaq AF401A management card, perhaps others

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS

This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "mibs=\fIname\fR"
Set MIB compliance (default=auto, allowed entries: refer to the above SUPPORTED HARDWARE).
With auto the driver will try a select set of objets until it finds one
that the device responds to.

.IP "community=\fIname\fR"
Set community name (default = public).
Note that you require a RW community name to perform UPS settings (as for a powerdown).

.IP "snmp_version=\fIversion\fR"
Set SNMP version (default = v1, the other allowed value is v2c)

.IP "pollfreq=\fIvalue\fR"
Set polling frequency in seconds, to reduce network flow (default=30)

.IP "notransferoids"
Disable the monitoring of the low and high voltage transfer OIDs in
the hardware.  This will remove input.transfer.low and input.transfer.high
from the list of variables.  This should only be used on APCC Symmetra
equipment which has strangeness in the three\(hyphase power reporting.

.IP "secLevel=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the securityLevel used for SNMPv3 messages (default=noAuthNoPriv, allowed: authNoPriv,authPriv)

.IP "secName=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the securityName used for authenticated SNMPv3 messages (no default)

.IP "authPassword=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the authentication pass phrase used for authenticated SNMPv3 messages (no default)

.IP "privPassword=\fIvalue\fR"
Set  the privacy pass phrase used for encrypted SNMPv3 messages (no default)

.IP "authProtocol=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the authentication protocol (MD5 or SHA) used for authenticated SNMPv3 messages (default=MD5)

.IP "privProtocol=\fIvalue\fR"
Set the privacy protocol (DES or AES) used for encrypted SNMPv3 messages (default=DES)

.SH REQUIREMENTS
You will need to install the Net\(hySNMP package from
http://www.net\(hysnmp.org before building this driver.

SNMP v3 also requires OpenSSL support from http://www.openssl.org.

.SH LIMITATION
.SS Shutdown

This driver does not provide a proper upsdrv_shutdown() function. There probably
never will be one, since at the time this script should run (near the end of
the system halt script), there will be no network capabilities anymore.
Probably the only way to shutdown an SNMP UPS is by sending it a shutdown
with delay command through \fBupscmd\fR(8) and hope for the best that the
system will have finished shutting down before the power is cut.

.SH INSTALLATION
This driver is only built if the Net SNMP development files are present on the system.
You can also force it to be built by using "configure \-\-with\-snmp=yes" before calling make.

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
The hostname of the UPS is specified with the "port" value in
\fBups.conf\fR, i.e.:

.nf
	[snmpv1]
		driver = snmp\-ups
		port = snmp\-ups.example.com
		community = public
		snmp_version = v1
		mibs = ietf
		pollfreq = 15
		desc = "Example SNMP v1 device"
.fi

.nf
	[snmpv3]
		driver = snmp-ups
		port = 166.99.224.132
		mibs = mge
		secLevel = authPriv
		secName = mysecurityname
		authPassword = myauthenticationpassphrase
		privPassword = myprivatepassphrase
		desc = "Example SNMP v3 device, with the highest security level"
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
Arnaud Quette, Dmitry Frolov

Sponsored by Eaton <http://www.eaton.com>
and originally by MGE UPS SYSTEMS <http://www.mgeups.com/>


.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS NUT SNMP Protocols Library
Available at: http://random.networkupstools.org/protocols/snmp/

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
