.TH UPS.CONF 5 "Sun Aug 24 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME
ups.conf \- UPS definitions for Network UPS Tools

.SH DESCRIPTION

This file is read by the driver controller upsdrvctl, the UPS drivers
that use the common core (see \fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)) and \fBupsd\fR(8).
The file begins with global directives, and then each UPS has a
section which contains a number of directives that set parameters for
that UPS.

A UPS section begins with the name of the ups in brackets, and continues
until the next UPS name in brackets or until EOF.  The name "default" is
used internally in upsd, so you can't use it in this file.

You must define the "driver" and "port" elements for each entry.  Anything
after that in a section is optional.  A simple example might look like
this:

.IP
.nf
	[myups]
		driver = megatec
		port = /dev/ttyS0
		desc = "Web server UPS"
.fi
.LP

A slightly more complicated version includes some extras for the
hardware\(hyspecific part of the driver:

.IP
.nf
	[bigups]
		driver = apcsmart
		port = /dev/cua00
		cable = 940\-0095B
		sdtype = 2
		desc = "Database server UPS"
.fi
.LP

In this case, the \fBapcsmart\fR(8) driver will receive variables called
"cable" and "sdtype" which have special meanings.  See the man pages of
your driver(s) to learn which variables are supported and what they do.

.SH GLOBAL DIRECTIVES

.IP chroot
Optional.  The driver will \fBchroot\fR(2) to this directory during
initialization.  This can be useful when securing systems.

.IP driverpath
Optional.  Path name of the directory in which the UPS driver executables
reside.  If you don't specify this, the programs look in a built\(hyin default
directory, which is often /usr/local/ups/bin.

.IP maxstartdelay
Optional.  Same as the UPS field of the same name, but this is the
default for UPSes that don't have the field.

.IP pollinterval
Optional.  The status of the UPS will be refreshed after a maximum
delay which is controlled by this setting.  This is normally 2 seconds.
This may be useful if the driver is creating too much of a load on your
system or network.

.IP user
Optional.  If started as root, the driver will \fBsetuid\fR(2) to the 
user id associated with \fIusername\fR.

.SH UPS FIELDS
.IP driver
Required.  This specifies which program will be monitoring this UPS.  You
need to specify the one that is compatible with your hardware.  See
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8) for more information on drivers in general and pointers
to the man pages of specific drivers.

.IP port
Required.  This is the serial port where the UPS is connected.  On a Linux
system, the first serial port usually is /dev/ttyS0.  On FreeBSD and
similar systems, it probably will be /dev/cuaa0.

.IP sdorder
Optional.  When you have multiple UPSes on your system, you usually need
to turn them off in a certain order.  upsdrvctl shuts down all the 0s,
then the 1s, 2s, and so on.  To exclude a UPS from the shutdown sequence,
set this to \-1.

The default value for this parameter is 0.

.IP desc
Optional.  This allows you to set a brief description that upsd will
provide to clients that ask for a list of connected equipment.

.IP nolock
Optional.  When you specify this, the driver skips the port locking
routines every time it starts.  This may allow other processes to seize
the port if you start more than one accidentally.
.IP
You should only use this if your system won't work without it.
.IP
This may be needed on Mac OS X systems.

.IP maxstartdelay
Optional.  This can be set as a global variable above your first UPS
definition and it can also be set in a UPS section.  This value controls
how long upsdrvctl will wait for the driver to finish starting.  This
keeps your system from getting stuck due to a broken driver or UPS.
.IP
The default is 45 seconds.
.LP

All other fields are passed through to the hardware\(hyspecific part of the
driver.  See those manuals for the list of what is allowed.

.SH INTEGRATION

\fBupsdrvctl\fR(8) uses this file to start and stop the drivers.

The drivers themselves also obtain configuration data from this file.
Each driver looks up its section and uses that to configure itself.

\fBupsd\fR(8) learns about which UPSes are installed on this system by
reading this file.  If this system is called "doghouse" and you have
defined a UPS in your ups.conf called "snoopy", then you can monitor it
from \fBupsc\fR(8) or similar as "snoopy@doghouse".

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsd\fR(8), \fBnutupsdrv\fR(8), \fBupsdrvctl\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
