.TH UPSCMD 8 "Mon Jan 22 2007" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME
upscmd \- UPS administration program for instant commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upscmd \-h

.B upscmd \-l \fIups\fR

.B upscmd [\-u \fIusername\fB] [\-p \fIpassword\fB] \fIups\fB \fIcommand\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B upscmd 
allows you to invoke "instant commands" in your UPS hardware.
Not all hardware supports this, so check the list with \-l to see if
anything will work on your equipment.

On hardware that supports it, you can use this program to start and stop
battery tests, invoke a front panel test (beep!), turn the load on or off,
and more.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-h
Display the help message.

.IP "\-l \fIups\fR"
Show the list of supported instant commands on that UPS.  Some hardware
may not support any of them.

.IP "\-u \fIusername\fR"
Set the username for the connection to the server.  This is optional, and
you will be prompted for this when invoking a command if \-u is not used.

.IP "\-p \fIpassword\fR"
Set the password to authenticate to the server.  This is also optional 
like \-u, and you will be prompted for it if necessary.

.IP \fIups\fR
Connect to this UPS.  The format is upsname[@hostname[:port]].  The default
hostname is "localhost".

.SH UNATTENDED MODE

If you run this program inside a shell script or similar to invoke
a command, you will need to specify all of the information on the command
line.  This means using \-u and \-p.  Otherwise it will put up a prompt and
your program will hang.

This is not necessary when displaying the list, as the username and
password are not required for read\(hyonly mode.

.SH DANGEROUS COMMANDS

Some drivers like \fBapcsmart\fR(8) have built\(hyin paranoia for the
dangerous commands like load.off.  To make them actually turn off the
load, you will have to send the command twice within a short window.
That is, you will have to send it once, then send it again after 3
seconds elapse but before 15 seconds pass.

This paranoia is entirely defined within the driver.  upsd and upscmd have
no control over the timing.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

upscmd won't work unless you provide a valid username and password.  If
you get "access denied" errors, make sure that your \fBupsd.users\fR(5) has
an entry for you, and that the username you are using has permissions to
SET variables.

.SH BUGS

There is currently no way to tell the user when the driver requires
confirmation to invoke a command such as load.off.  Similarly, there is
not yet a way to tell the user if a command succeeds or fails.

This is on the list of things to fix in the future, so don't despair.
It involves magic cookies.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsd\fR(8), \fBupsrw\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
