.TH UPSCODE2 8 "Tue Oct 19 2004" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upscode2 \- Driver for UPScode II compatible UPS equipment
.SH NOTE
This man page only documents the hardware\(hyspecific features of the
upscode2 driver.  For information about the core driver, see
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8).

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
This driver supports UPS equipment which can be controlled via
the UPScode II protocol.
This is mainly Fiskars, Powerware equipment, but also some (probably OEM'ed)
products from Compaq.

.SH EXTRA ARGUMENTS
This driver supports the following optional settings in the
\fBups.conf\fR(5):

.IP "manufacturer=\fIvalue\fR"
Autodetection of this parameter is not possible yet (and it probably
never will be). Therefore this user defined string accepts any name. The
default is \fIunknown\fR.

.IP "input_timeout=\fIvalue\fR"
The timeout waiting for a response from the UPS. Some UPS models have
shown to be rather slow, resulting in frequent messages about empty
responses from the UPS. If you see this, try increasing this value.

.IP "output_pace=\fIvalue\fR"
Delay between characters sent to the UPS. This was added for completeness
with the above parameter. It has not shown to be needed yet.

.IP "baudrate=\fIvalue\fR"
The default baudrate is 1200, which is the standard for the UPScode II
protocol.

.IP "full_update_timer=\fIvalue\fR"
Number of seconds between collection of normative values.

.IP "use_crlf"
Flag to set if commands towards to UPS need to be terminated with CR-LF,
and not just CR.

.IP "use_pre_lf"
Flag to set if commands towards to UPS need to be introduced with an LF.
A Compaq T1500h is known to need this.

.SH UPSCMD

The driver supports the following commands for those UPSen that support them.
The available commands are autodetected during initialization,
so you should check availability with \fIupscmd -l\fR.

test.panel.start \(hy Start UPS self test

test.battery.start \(hy Start battery self test

beeper.enable \(hy Enable UPS beeper

beeper.disable \(hy Disable UPS beeper

shutdown.return \(hy Shut down in 1 second and wait for power to return

shutdown.stayoff \(hy Shut down in 1 seconds

shutdown.reboot \(hy Shut down in 1 seconds and reboot after 1 minute

shutdown.reboot.graceful \(hy Shut down in 20 seconds and reboot after 1 minute

.SH NOTES

The Powerware UPS models that this driver has been tested against until now
has not returned a value for \fIbattery.charge\fR. Therefore the driver will
guesstimate a value based on the nominal battery min/max and the current
battery voltage.

.SH AUTHOR
H\[oa]vard Lygre <hklygre@online.no>,
Niels Baggesen <niels@baggesen.net>

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS The core driver:
\fBnutupsdrv\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
