.TH UPSCLI_LIST_NEXT 3 "Tue May 13 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upscli_list_next \- retrieve list items from a UPS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <upsclient.h>
.sp
.BI "int upscli_list_next(UPSCONN *ups, int numq, const char **query,
.BI "			int *numa, char ***answer)"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBupscli_list_next()\fP function takes the pointer \fIups\fP to a
UPSCONN state structure, and the pointer \fIquery\fP to an array of
\fInumq\fP query elements.  It performs a read from the network and
expects to find either another list item or the end of a list.
.PP
You must call \fBupscli_list_start\fP(3) before calling this function.
.PP
This function will return 1 and set values in \fInuma\fP and
\fIanswer\fP if a list item is received.  If the list is done, it will
return 0, and the values in \fInuma\fP and \fIanswer\fP are undefined.
.PP
Calling this function after it returns something other than 1 is
undefined.
.PP
.SH QUERY FORMATTING
You may not change the values of \fInumq\fP or \fIquery\fP between the
call to \fBupscli_list_start\fP(3) and the first call to this function.
You also may not change the values between calls to this function.
.PP
.SH ANSWER FORMATTING
The contents of \fInuma\fP and \fIanswer\fP work just like a call to
\fBupscli_get\fP(3).  The values returned by \fBupsd\fP are identical to
a single item request, so this is not surprising.
.PP
.SH "ERROR CHECKING"
This function checks the response from \fBupsd\fP against your query.
If the response is not part of the list you have requested, it will
return an error code.
.PP
When this happens, \fBupscli_upserror\fP(3) will return
\fIUPSCLI_ERR_PROTOCOL\fP.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBupscli_list_next()\fP function returns 1 when list data is
present, 0 if the list is finished, or \-1 if an error occurs.
.PP
It is possible to have an empty list.  The function will return 0 for
its first call in that case.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR upscli_list_start "(3), "
.BR upscli_strerror "(3), "upscli_upserror "(3) "
