.TH UPSC 8 "Mon Mar 12 2007" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME
upsc \- example lightweight UPS client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upsc \-l | \-L [\fIhost\fB]

.B upsc \fIups\fB [\fIvariable\fB]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B upsc
is provided as a quick way to poll the status of a UPS server.  It can be
used inside shell scripts and other programs that need UPS data but don't
want to include the full interface.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-l\ \fIhost\fR
List all UPS names configured at \fIhost\fR, one name per line. The hostname
defaults to "localhost".  You may optionally add a colon and a port number.

.IP \-L\ \fIhost\fR
As above, list all UPS names configured at \fIhost\fR, including their
description provided by the remote \fBupsd\fR(8) from \fBupsc.conf\fR(5). The
hostname defaults to "localhost".  You may optionally add a colon and a port
number to override the default port.

.IP \fIups\fR
Display the status of that UPS.  The format for this option is
upsname[@hostname[:port]].  The default hostname is "localhost".

.IP \fIvariable\fR
Display the value of this variable only.  By default, upsc retrieves
the list of variables from the server and then displays the value for
each.  This may be useful in shell scripts to save an additional pipe
into grep.

.SH EXAMPLES

To list all variables on an UPS named "myups" on a host
called "mybox", with \fBupsd\fR(8) running on port 1234:

.nf
    $ upsc myups@mybox:1234
    battery.charge: 100.0
    battery.voltage: 13.9
    battery.voltage.nominal: 13.6
    . . .
.fi

To list the UPSes configured on this system, along with their descriptions:

.nf
    $ upsc -L
    apc: Back-UPS 500
    ppro2: Patriot Pro II
.fi

To retrieve the status for all UPSes connected to mybox, using Bourne-shell
syntax:

.nf
    $ for UPS in `upsc -l mybox:1234`; do
        upsc $UPS ups.status
    done
.fi

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

upsc will either print a list of UPS names, a list of all supported variables
and their values on the UPS, or an error message.  If you receive an error,
make sure you have specified a valid UPS on the command line, that
\fBupsd\fR(8) is really running on the other host and that no firewalls are
blocking you.

.SH HISTORY

Earlier versions of this program used the \fBupsfetch\fR library and UDP
sockets to talk to upsd.  This version of upsc uses the new
\fBupsclient\fR library, which only talks TCP.  This is why \fBupsct\fR
no longer exists.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsd\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
