.TH UPSD.USERS 5 "Mon Jul 14 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upsd.users \- Administrative user definitions for NUT upsd

.SH DESCRIPTION

Administrative commands such as setting variables and the instant
commands are powerful, and access to them needs to be restricted.  This
file defines who may access them, and what is available.

Each user gets its own section.  The fields in that section set the 
parameters associated with that user's privileges.  The section begins
with the name of the user in brackets, and continues until the next user
name in brackets or EOF.

Here are some examples to get you started:

.IP
.nf
	[admin]
		password = mypass
		actions = set
		instcmds = all

	[pfy]
		password = duh
		instcmds = test.panel.start

	[monmaster]
		password = blah
		upsmon master

	[monslave]
		password = abcd
		upsmon slave
.fi
.LP

.SH FIELDS

.IP password

Set the password for this user.

.IP actions

Allow the user to do certain things with upsd.
Valid actions are:

	SET \(hy change the value of certain variables in the UPS

	FSD \(hy set the forced shutdown flag in the UPS.  This is 
equivalent to an "on battery + low battery" situation for the purposes
of monitoring.

The list of actions is expected to grow in the future.

.IP instcmds

Let a user initiate specific instant commands.  Use "ALL" to grant all
commands automatically.  For the full list of what your UPS supports,
use "upscmd \-l".  

The \fBcmdvartab\fR file supplied with the distribution contains a list
of most of the known command names.

.IP upsmon

Add the necessary actions for a upsmon process to work.  This is either
set to "master" or "slave".

Do not attempt to assign actions to upsmon by hand, as you may miss
something important.  This method of designating a "upsmon user" was
created so internal capabilities could be changed later on without
breaking existing installations.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBupsd\fR(8), \fBupsd.conf\fR(5)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/

