.TH UPSLOG 8 "Mon Jan 22 2007" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME
upslog \- UPS status logger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upslog \-h

.B upslog [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B upslog
is a daemon that will poll a UPS at periodic intervals, fetch the
variables that interest you, format them, and write them to a file.

The default format string includes variables that are supported by many
common UPS models.  See the description below to make your own.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-h
Display the help message.

.IP "\-f \fIformat\fR"
Monitor the UPS using this format string.  Be sure to enclose
\fIformat\fR in quotes so your shell doesn't split it up. Valid escapes
within this string are:

%% \(hy insert a single %

%TIME format% \(hy insert the time with strftime formatting

%ETIME% \(hy insert the number of seconds, ala time_t.  This is now a 
10 digit number.

%HOST% \(hy insert the local hostname

%UPSHOST% \(hy insert the host of the UPS being monitored

%PID% \(hy insert the pid of upslog

%VAR varname% \(hy insert the value of variable varname

The default format string is:

%TIME @Y@m@d @H@M@S% %VAR battery.charge% %VAR input.voltage% 
%VAR ups.load% [%VAR ups.status%] %VAR ups.temperature% 
%VAR input.frequency%

.IP "\-i \fIinterval\fR"

Wait this many seconds between polls.  This defaults to 30 seconds.

Polls are not instantaneous, so they will slip back as the program runs.
If you require tighter timing, you should write your own logger using
the upsclient library.

.IP "\-l \fIlogfile\fR"

Store the results in this file.

You can use \(hy for stdout, but upslog will remain in the foreground.

.IP "\-s \fIups\fR"
Monitor this UPS.  The format for this option is  
upsname[@hostname[:port]].  The default hostname is "localhost".

.IP "\-u \fIusername\fR"

If started as root, upsmon will \fBsetuid\fR(2) to the user id
associated with \fIusername\fR for security.  

If it is not defined, it will use the value that was compiled into the
program.  This defaults to 'nobody', which is less than ideal.

.SH SERVICE DELAYS

The interval value is merely the number given to sleep() after running
through the format string.  Therefore, a query will actually take slightly
longer than the interval depending on the speed of your system.

.SH LOG ROTATION

upslog writes its pid to upslog.pid, and will reopen the log file if you
send it a SIGHUP.  This allows it to keep running when the log is rotated
by an external program.

.SH SEE ALSO

.SS Server:
\fBupsd\fR(8)

.SS Clients:
\fBupsc\fR(8), \fBupscmd\fR(8),
\fBupsrw\fR(8), \fBupsmon\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
