.TH UPSRW 8 "Mon Jan 22 2007" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)" 
.SH NAME
upsrw \- UPS variable administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upsrw \fIups\fR

.B upsrw \-h

.B upsrw \-s \fIvariable\fB [\-u \fIusername\fB] [\-p \fIpassword\fB]
\fIups\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B upsrw
allows you to view and change the read/write variables inside your UPS.
It sends commands via the server \fBupsd\fR(8) to your driver, which
configures the hardware for you.

The list of variables that allow you to change their values is based on
the capabilities of your UPS equipment.  Not all models support this
feature.  Typically, cheaper hardware does not support any of them.
Run upsrw with a UPS identifier to see what will work for you.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP \-h
Display the help message.

.IP "\-s \fIvariable\fR"
Specify the variable to be changed inside the UPS.  For unattended
mode such as in shell scripts, use the format VAR=VALUE to specify both
the variable and the value, for example:

\-s input.transfer.high=129

Without this argument, upsrw will just display the list of the variables
and their possible values.

Some variables are strings, and can be set to any value within the
length limit.  Others are enumerated types and can only be set to one of
those values.  Refer to the list to know what's available in your
hardware.

.IP "\-u \fIusername\fR"
Set the username for the connection to the server.  This is optional,
and you will be prompted for this when using the \-s option if you don't
specify \-u on the command line.

.IP "\-p \fIpassword\fR"
Set the password to authenticate to the server.  This is also optional
like \-u, and you will be prompted for it if necessary.  

.IP \fIups\fR
View or change the settings on this UPS.  The format for this option is
upsname[@hostname[:port]].  The default hostname is "localhost".

.SH UNATTENDED MODE

If you run this program inside a shell script or similar to set
variables, you will need to specify all of the information on the
command line.  This means using \-s VAR=VALUE, \-u and \-p.  Otherwise it
will put up a prompt and your program will hang.

This is not necessary when displaying the list, as the username and
password are not required for read\(hyonly mode.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

upsrw can't set variables on your UPS unless you provide a valid
username and password.  If you get "access denied" errors, make sure
that your \fBupsd.users\fR(5) has an entry for you, and that the
username you are using has permissions to SET variables.

.SH HISTORY

This program used to be called upsct2, which was ambiguous and
confusing.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsd\fR(8), \fBupscmd\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
