.TH UPSSET.CONF 5 "Wed Nov 26 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upsset.conf \- Configuration for Network UPS Tools upsset.cgi

.SH DESCRIPTION

This file only does one job \(hy it lets you convince \fBupsset.cgi\fR(8)
that your system's CGI directory is secure.  The program will not run
until this file has been properly defined.

.SH SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

\fBupsset.cgi\fR(8) allows you to try login name and password combinations.
There is no rate limiting, as the program shuts down between every request.
Such is the nature of CGI programs.

Normally, attackers would not be able to access your \fBupsd\fR(8) server
directly as it would be protected by the ACL/ACCEPT/REJECT directives in
your \fBupsd.conf\fR(5) file and hopefully local firewall settings in
your OS.

upsset runs on your web server, so upsd will see it as a connection from
a host on an internal network.  It doesn't know that the connection is 
actually coming from someone on the outside.  This is why you must 
secure it.

On Apache, you can use the .htaccess file or put the directives in your
httpd.conf.  It looks something like this, assuming the .htaccess
method:

.IP
.nf
	<Files upsset.cgi>
	deny from all
	allow from your.network.addresses
	</Files>
.fi
.LP

You will probably have to set "AllowOverride Limit" for this directory 
in your server\(hylevel configuration file as well.

If this doesn't make sense, then stop reading and leave this program 
alone.  It's not something you absolutely need to have anyway.

Assuming you have all this done, and it actually works (test it!), then
you may add the following directive to this file:

	I_HAVE_SECURED_MY_CGI_DIRECTORY

If you lie to the program and someone beats on your upsd through your
web server, don't blame me.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsset.cgi\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
