.TH upsstats.html 5 "Tue Jul 29 2003" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upsstats.html \- HTML template for Network UPS Tools upsstats

.SH DESCRIPTION

This file is used by \fBupsstats.cgi\fR(8) to generate status pages.
Certain commands are recognized, and will be replaced with various
status elements on the fly.

.SH FORMATTING

All commands must be alone on a line, and start and end with @.  A line
that has any extra characters before or after the @ will be passed 
through unchanged.

.SH BLOCK CONTROL

Some commands begin blocks - sections of the template that will be
included, excluded, or repeated depending on certain parameters.

.IP @FOREACHUPS@
Starts a block that will be repeated for each MONITOR directive in the
\fBhosts.conf\fR(5).  This is how you can generate pages that monitor
all of your systems simultaneously.

.IP @ENDFOR@
Ends a FOREACHUPS block.

.IP "@IFSUPP var@"
Starts a block that will only be printed if the variable var is
supported by the current UPS.  This is generally used to suppress "not
supported" messages by avoiding the label and variable call entirely.

.IP @ENDIF@
Ends an IFSUPP block.

.P

IFSUPP blocks may be contained within a FOREACHUPS block.  Nesting 
and other combinations are not supported.

.SH OTHER COMMANDS

.IP @AMBTEMP@
Insert the ambient temperature in the current temperature scale.

.IP "@DATE format@"
Insert the current date and time.  The format string is passed to strftime,
so almost anything is possible.  See \fBstrftime\fR(3) for possible values.

.IP @DEGREES@
Insert the entity for degrees (&deg;) and either C or F depending on
the current temperature scale.

.IP @HOST@
Insert the designation of the host being monitored, like myups@localhost.

.IP @HOSTDESC@
Insert the host's description from \fBhosts.conf\fR(5).

.IP @HOSTLINK@
Insert a link to upsstats.cgi with the "host" variable set to the
current UPS.  This is only useful within a FOREACHUPS block.

.IP "@IMG varname [\fIextra\fR]@"
Insert an IMG SRC to \fBupsimage.cgi\fR(8) for one of these
status variables:

	battery.charge - Battery charge - a percentage

	battery.voltage - The charge on the battery in volts

	ups.load - UPS load - percentage

	input.voltage - Incoming utility voltage

	output.voltage - Outgoing voltage (from the UPS)

	input.frequency - Incoming utility frequency (Hz)

	output.frequency - Outgoing utility frequency (Hz)

	ups.temperature - UPS temperature 

\fIextra\fR is where you can put additional definitions.  Right now
the valid definitions are colors for various parts of the bars drawn
by upsimage.cgi.  Possible color names are:

	back_col - background color

	scale_num_col - scale number color

	summary_col - summary color (number at the bottom)

	ok_zone_maj_col	- major scale color for the normal ("ok") zone

	ok_zone_min_col	- minor scale color for the normal ("ok") zone

	neutral_zone_maj_col - major scale color for the neutral zone

	neutral_zone_min_col - minor scale color for the neutral zone

	warn_zone_maj_col - major scale color for the warning zone

	warn_zone_min_col - minor scale color for the warning zone

	bar_col - the color of the bar in the middle

All colors are hex triplets - 0xff0000 is red, 0x00ff00 is green, and
0x0000ff is blue.

Examples:

	@IMG battery.charge@

	@IMG battery.charge back_col=0xff00ff bar_col=0xaabbcc@

	@IMG input.voltage ok_zone_maj_col=0x123456@

.IP @REFRESH@
Insert the META header magic for refreshing the page if that variable
has been set by the browser.  This needs to be in the HEAD section of
the page.

.IP @STATUS@
Expand the abbreviations in the ups.status variable - OL becomes
"On line", OB becomes "On battery", and so on.

.IP @STATUSCOLOR@
Insert red, green, or yellow color triplets depending on the severity of
the current UPS status.  Normal operations are green, warnings like
voltage trim/boost or "off" are yellow, and other events like being on
battery or having a low battery are red.

.IP "@VAR varname@"
Insert the current value of the status variable varname on the host being 
monitored, or "Not supported".

.IP @TEMPC@
Use the Celsius scale for temperature data (default).

.IP @TEMPF@
Use the Fahrenheit scale for temperature data.

.IP @UPSTEMP@
Insert the UPS temperature in the current scale.

.IP @UTILITYCOLOR@
Insert either #FF0000 (red) or #00FF00 (green) depending on the incoming
utility voltage.  By default this will return green, unless the utility
is outside the bounds defined by lowxfer and highxfer.  Those voltages
are a function of your driver, and do not exist on all of them.

.IP @VERSION@
Insert the version number of the software.

.SH OTHER TEMPLATES
\fBupsstats.cgi\fR(8) will also open a file called upsstats-single.html
if you call it with "host=" set in the URL.  That file uses the same
rules and techniques documented here.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsstats.cgi\fR(8), \fBupsimage.cgi\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
