.TH upsstats.cgi 8 "Mon Sep  2 2002" "" "Network UPS Tools (NUT)"
.SH NAME
upsstats.cgi \- Web\(hybased UPS status viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upsstats.cgi

.SH NOTE
As a CGI program, this should be invoked through your web server.
If you run it from the command line, it will either complain about
unauthorized access or spew a bunch of HTML at you.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upsstats.cgi
uses template files to build web pages containing status information
from UPS hardware.  It can repeat sections of those template files to
monitor several UPSes simultaneously, or focus on a single UPS.

These templates can also include references to \fBupsimage.cgi\fR(8)
for graphical displays of battery charge levels, voltage readings, and
the UPS load.

.SH ACCESS CONTROL
upsstats will only talk to \fBupsd\fR(8) servers that have been defined
in your \fBhosts.conf\fR(5).  If it complains that "Access to that host
is not authorized", check that file first.

.SH TEMPLATES
The web page that is displayed is actually a template containing
commands to upsstats which are replaced by status information.  The
default file used for the overview is upsstats.html.

When monitoring a single UPS, the file displayed is
upsstats\-single.html.

The format of these files, including the possible commands, is
documented in \fBupsstats.html\fR(5).


.SH FILES
\fBhosts.conf\fR(5) \fBupsstats.html\fR(5)

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBupsimage.cgi\fR(8)

.SS Internet resources:
The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
