scripts/python/README.adoc, before:

Python NUT Client files
-----------------------

This directory contains various NUT Client related Python scripts, written
by David Goncalves, and released under GPL v3.

module
~~~~~~

This directory contains `PyNUT.py`, which is a Python abstraction class to
access NUT data server(s). You can use it in Python programs to access NUT's
`upsd` data server in a simple way, without having to know the NUT protocol.

The same module should work for Python 2 and Python 3.

To import it into Python programs you have to use the following line (case
sensitive):

    import PyNUT

This module provides a `PyNUTClient` class that can be used to connect and
get data from an `upsd` data server.

To install the `PyNUT` module on Debian/Ubuntu, copy it to:
`/usr/share/python-support/python-pynut/`

For quick tests, just make sure its directory is exported in `PYTHONPATH`
environment variable.

This directory also contains `test_nutclient.py`, which is a `PyNUT` test program
and it also serves as a code example. For this to be fully functional, you will
need to adapt the login, password and upsname to fit your configuration.
A NUT data server should be running for the test program to verify connection
and protocol support.

For one practical example, you can research `tests/NIT/nit.sh` in NUT sources.

telnetlib
^^^^^^^^^

Historically, the `PyNUTClient` class relied on `telnetlib` module for socket
communications with the NUT data server, which was provided as part of Python
core installation with tested 2.6+ and 3.* versions. The module was, however,
marked deprecated since Python 3.11 and not provided since 3.13. Due to this,
as a quick stop-gap solution, NUT sources provide `nut_telnetlib.py` - a copy
of the module from Python 3.10 installation, and no longer should require its
presence in the Python deployment.

A better solution would be to find or create a new layer for the constrained
use-case of NUT client interactions with a data server, which do not need the
fully fledged Telnet-like capabilities.

app
~~~

This directory contains the `NUT-Monitor` UI application, which uses the
`PyNUT` class, along with its own resources.

There are two closely related separate implementations, for Python 2 with GTK2
and for Python 3 with Qt5. Both can be installed at the same time, if your
distribution has not yet outlawed the obsolete Python 2 interpreters.

To install it, you will either need to keep the files together, or to install:

- Depending on the Python version(s) your system has, put `NUT-Monitor-py2gtk2`
  and/or `NUT-Monitor-py3qt5` to `/usr/bin/`, `/usr/X11R6/bin/` or something
  like that (optionally making a simple `NUT-Monitor` symlink to the preferred
  implementation version or using the provided wrapper script),
- `ui/*.glade` (for `NUT-Monitor-py2gtk2`) or `ui/*.ui` (for `NUT-Monitor-py3qt5`)
  files to `/usr/share/nut-monitor/`,
- `nut-monitor.png` to something like `/usr/share/pixmaps/`,
- finally, `nut-monitor-py2gtk2.desktop` and/or `nut-monitor-py3qt5.desktop`
  (optionally symlinked as `nut-monitor.desktop`) to `/usr/share/applications/`

The `PyNUT` module can be kept nearby, or must be installed as a "site" or "vendor"
provided script into your Python modules location. See the wrapper script for more technical details.

Commit message:

scripts/python/README.adoc: update wording [#2773]
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

scripts/python/README.adoc, after:

Python NUT Client files
-----------------------

This directory contains various NUT Client related Python scripts, written
by David Goncalves, and released under GPL v3.

module
~~~~~~

This directory contains `PyNUT.py`, which is a Python abstraction class to
access NUT data server(s). You can use it in Python programs to access NUT's
`upsd` data server in a simple way, without having to know the NUT protocol.

The same module should work for Python 2 and Python 3.

To import it into Python programs you have to use the following line (case
sensitive):

    import PyNUT

This module provides a `(PyNUT.)PyNUTClient` class that can be used to connect
and get data from an `upsd` data server.

To install the `PyNUT` module on Debian/Ubuntu, copy it to:
`/usr/share/python-support/python-pynut/`

For quick tests, just make sure its directory is exported in `PYTHONPATH`
environment variable.

This directory also contains `test_nutclient.py`, which is a `PyNUT` test program
and it also serves as a code example. For this to be fully functional, you will
need to adapt the login, password and upsname to fit your configuration.
A NUT data server should be running for the test program to verify connection
and protocol support.

For one practical example, you can research `tests/NIT/nit.sh` in NUT sources.

telnetlib
^^^^^^^^^

Historically, the `PyNUTClient` class relied on `telnetlib` module for socket
communications with the NUT data server, which was provided as part of Python
core installation with tested 2.6+ and 3.* versions. The module was, however,
marked deprecated since Python 3.11 and not provided since 3.13. Due to this,
as a quick stop-gap solution, NUT sources provide `nut_telnetlib.py` -- a copy
of the module from Python 3.10 installation, and no longer should require its
presence in the Python deployment.

A better solution would be to find or create a new layer for the constrained
use-case of NUT client interactions with a data server, which do not need the
fully fledged Telnet-like capabilities.

app
~~~

This directory contains the `NUT-Monitor` UI application, which uses the
`PyNUT` class, along with its own resources.

NOTE: Do not mistake it for `nut-monitor` service for the `upsmon` client in
some distributions' NUT packaging.

There are two closely related separate implementations, for Python 2 with GTK2
and for Python 3 with Qt5. Both can be installed at the same time, if your
distribution has not yet outlawed the obsolete Python 2 interpreters.

To install it, you will either need to keep the files together, or to install:

- Depending on the Python version(s) your system has, put `NUT-Monitor-py2gtk2`
  and/or `NUT-Monitor-py3qt5` to `/usr/bin/`, `/usr/X11R6/bin/` or something
  like that (optionally making a simple `NUT-Monitor` symlink to the preferred
  implementation version or using the provided wrapper script),
- `ui/*.glade` (for `NUT-Monitor-py2gtk2`) or `ui/*.ui` (for `NUT-Monitor-py3qt5`)
  files to `/usr/share/nut-monitor/`,
- `nut-monitor.png` to something like `/usr/share/pixmaps/`,
- finally, `nut-monitor-py2gtk2.desktop` and/or `nut-monitor-py3qt5.desktop`
  (optionally symlinked as `nut-monitor.desktop`) to `/usr/share/applications/`

The `PyNUT` module can be kept nearby, or must be installed as a "site" or
"vendor" provided script into your Python modules location. See the wrapper
scripts of the app for more technical details.
