scripts/installer/README.adoc, before:

NUT Installer (command-line)
============================

This directory contains scripts and data used for NUT packaging
marketed earlier as Eaton IPSS Unix (or IPP for Unix, or UPP),
a freely available download. Most of the work was done on behalf
of Eaton by Frederic Bohe, Vaclav Krpec, Arnaud Quette and Jim Klimov.

This includes the package (tarball) creation script which relies on
presence of third-party library binaries in a `$ARCH/libs` directory,
pre-built package files (courtesy of NUT `make package` recipes),
and init-scripts from NUT source tree (originally expected as a `nut`
subdirectory, can be a symlink to `../..`; currently copies stored in
the `$ARCH` subdirectories; eventually should be taken from NUT sources
during build, or from packages), as well as an interactive text-mode
installer script to set up the package on a target deployment covering
package (re-)installation, initial device discovery, password setup,
etc., and helper scripts for status overview and shutdown handling.

Example `$ARCH` related directory layout in original posting (binary
files mentioned below are not provided into NUT Git source code base);
these are the contents `make_package.sh` script expects to work with
(you can see the names mentioned in `find ... | grep -v ...` filters):

* `aix/` example for AIX 6 and 7 based IPSS Unix releases:
  * `libs/`: `libcrypto.a`, `libcrypto.so`, etc...
  * `nut-2.6.5-1.aix6.1.ppc.rpm` and `nut-client-2.6.5-1.aix6.1.ppc.rpm`
    package files
  * `nutconf` binary for the platform
  * `aix_init` script
  * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`

* `hpux/` for PA-RISC:
  * `libs/`: `libcrypto.sl`, `libexpat.sl`, `libiconv.sl`, `libintl.sl`,
    `libltdl.sl`, `libneon.sl`, `libnetsnmp.sl.30`, `libssl.sl`, `libz.sl`
    * Notably, `libnutscan.sl.1` (other platforms did not carry a copy)
  * `nut.depot.tar.gz` package file
  * `nutconf` binary for the platform
  * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`

* Solaris (SPARC and X86) spread across 3 directories:
  * `solcmn/` with common platform-independent files:
    * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`
    * `solaris_init` script

  * `solari` with SPARC binaries:
    * `libs/`: `libcrypto.so.0.9.8`, `libz.so`, etc.
    * `NUT_solaris_sparc_package2.6.5.local` package file
    * `nutconf` binary for the platform

  * `solint` with X86 binaries:
    * `libs/`: `libcrypto.so.1.0.0`, `libgcc_s.so.1`, `libltdl.so.7`,
      `libneon.so.27`, `libnetsnmp.so.15`, `libproxy.so.0`,
      `libssl.so.1.0.0`, `libstdc++.so.6`, `libwrap.so.1`
    * `NUT_solaris_i386_package2.6.5.local` package file
    * `nutconf` binary for the platform

The installer relies on `nutconf` tool (emulating dummy script for
tests provided here), which is part of NUT sources.

Note that heavy use of `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` in these scripts may become
counterproductive when the package is installed on a system that is
too many versions away from the intended target (e.g. mixing up the
symbols during dynamic linking), so while this contribution here is
published "as is", more work would be needed to make it useful in
modern environments. Helper scripts should be quickly useful though.

Developed (pre-?)2013-2018 by Eaton; contributed to NUT 2022 by Eaton

Maintained since 2024 by Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

Commit message:

docs: finalize re-licensing of scripts/installer from Eaton to NUT terms (GPL) [#2288, #2621]
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

scripts/installer/README.adoc, after:

NUT Installer (command-line)
============================

This directory contains scripts and data used for NUT packaging
marketed earlier as Eaton IPSS Unix (or IPP for Unix, or UPP),
a freely available download. Most of the work was done on behalf
of Eaton by Frederic Bohe, Vaclav Krpec, Arnaud Quette and Jim Klimov.

This includes the package (tarball) creation script which relies on
presence of third-party library binaries in a `$ARCH/libs` directory,
pre-built package files (courtesy of NUT `make package` recipes),
and init-scripts from NUT source tree (originally expected as a `nut`
subdirectory, can be a symlink to `../..`; currently copies stored in
the `$ARCH` subdirectories; eventually should be taken from NUT sources
during build, or from packages), as well as an interactive text-mode
installer script to set up the package on a target deployment covering
package (re-)installation, initial device discovery, password setup,
etc., and helper scripts for status overview and shutdown handling.

Example `$ARCH` related directory layout in original posting (binary
files mentioned below are not provided into NUT Git source code base);
these are the contents `make_package.sh` script expects to work with
(you can see the names mentioned in `find ... | grep -v ...` filters):

* `aix/` example for AIX 6 and 7 based IPSS Unix releases:
  * `libs/`: `libcrypto.a`, `libcrypto.so`, etc...
  * `nut-2.6.5-1.aix6.1.ppc.rpm` and `nut-client-2.6.5-1.aix6.1.ppc.rpm`
    package files
  * `nutconf` binary for the platform
  * `aix_init` script
  * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`

* `hpux/` for PA-RISC:
  * `libs/`: `libcrypto.sl`, `libexpat.sl`, `libiconv.sl`, `libintl.sl`,
    `libltdl.sl`, `libneon.sl`, `libnetsnmp.sl.30`, `libssl.sl`, `libz.sl`
    * Notably, `libnutscan.sl.1` (other platforms did not carry a copy)
  * `nut.depot.tar.gz` package file
  * `nutconf` binary for the platform
  * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`

* Solaris (SPARC and X86) spread across 3 directories:
  * `solcmn/` with common platform-independent files:
    * `ipp-os-shutdown.conf.sample`
    * `solaris_init` script

  * `solari` with SPARC binaries:
    * `libs/`: `libcrypto.so.0.9.8`, `libz.so`, etc.
    * `NUT_solaris_sparc_package2.6.5.local` package file
    * `nutconf` binary for the platform

  * `solint` with X86 binaries:
    * `libs/`: `libcrypto.so.1.0.0`, `libgcc_s.so.1`, `libltdl.so.7`,
      `libneon.so.27`, `libnetsnmp.so.15`, `libproxy.so.0`,
      `libssl.so.1.0.0`, `libstdc++.so.6`, `libwrap.so.1`
    * `NUT_solaris_i386_package2.6.5.local` package file
    * `nutconf` binary for the platform

The installer relies on `nutconf` tool (emulating dummy script for
tests provided here), which is part of NUT sources.

Note that heavy use of `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` in these scripts may become
counterproductive when the package is installed on a system that is
too many versions away from the intended target (e.g. mixing up the
symbols during dynamic linking), so while this contribution here is
published "as is", more work would be needed to make it useful in
modern environments. Helper scripts should be quickly useful though.

Developed (pre-?)2013-2018 by Eaton; contributed to NUT and re-licensed
under same terms as NUT in 2022 by Eaton.

Maintained since 2024 by Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>
