APCSMART-OLD(8)
===============

NAME
----

apcsmart-old - Driver for American Power Conversion Smart Protocol UPS equipment

SYNOPSIS
--------

*apcsmart-old* -h

*apcsmart-old* -a 'UPS_NAME' ['OPTIONS']

NOTE: This man page only documents the hardware-specific features of the
apcsmart-old driver.  For information about the core driver, see
linkman:nutupsdrv[8].

SUPPORTED HARDWARE
------------------

apcsmart-old should recognize all recent APC models that use a serial
protocol at 2400 bps.  This is primarily the Smart-UPS, Matrix-UPS and
Back-UPS Pro lines.

The driver attempts to support every bell and whistle of the APC
reporting interface, whether or not this is strictly sensible.

Some older hardware may only report a handful of variables.  This is
usually not a bug--they just don't support anything else.

CABLING
-------

This driver expects to see a 940-0024C cable or a clone by default.  You
can switch to the 940-0095B dual-mode cable support with the `cable=`
definition described below.

If your 940-0024C cable is broken or missing, use this diagram to build
a clone:

http://www.networkupstools.org/cables/940-0024C.jpg

EXTRA ARGUMENTS
---------------

This driver supports the following optional settings in the
linkman:ups.conf[5]:

*cable=940-0095B*::
Configure the serial port for the APC 940-0095B dual-mode cable.

*sdtype=*'num'::
Use shutdown type 'num', according to this table:

0;; soft shutdown or powerdown, depending on battery status

1;; soft shutdown followed by powerdown

2;; instant power off

3;; power off with grace period

4;; "force OB" hack method for CS 350

Modes 0 and 1 will power up the load when power returns.  Modes 2 and 3
will keep the load turned off when the power returns.

Mode 4 exploits an oddity in the CS 350 models since they only seem to
support the S command, but then only when running on battery.  As a
result, the driver will force the UPS to go on battery if necessary
before sending the shutdown command.  This ensures that the load gets
reset.

BUGS
----

Some older APC UPS models return bogus data in the status register during
a front panel test.  This is usually detected and discarded, but some
other unexpected values have occasionally slipped through.

APC UPS models with both USB and serial ports require a power cycle when
switching from USB communication to serial, and perhaps vice versa.

AUTHORS AND HISTORY
-------------------

Nigel Metheringham <Nigel.Metheringham@Intechnology.co.uk> (drawing
heavily on the original `apcsmart` driver by Russell Kroll).

This driver was called `newapc` for a time and was renamed in
the 1.5 series.

In 2.6.2 the driver was renamed to `apcsmart-old`, being superseded
by updated version with new features.

SEE ALSO
--------

The core driver:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

linkman:nutupsdrv[8]

Internet resources:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The NUT (Network UPS Tools) home page: http://www.networkupstools.org/
