docs/ci-farm-do-setup.adoc, before:

Setting up the non-standard VM farm for NUT CI on DigitalOcean
--------------------------------------------------------------

Since 2023 the Network UPS Tools employs virtual machines hosted and
courteously sponsored as part of FOSS support program by
link:https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=d2fbf2b9e082&utm_campaign=Referral_Invite&utm_medium=Referral_Program&utm_source=badge[DigitalOcean]
for a significant part of the NUT CI farm and multi-platform testing.

To that extent, while it is easy to deploy common OS images and manage the
resulting VMs, there are only so many images and platforms that are officially
supported by the hosting as general-purpose "DigitalOcean VPS Droplets".
In particular, while there is half a dozen Linux distributions offered out
of the box, FreeBSD support was present earlier but abandoned shortly before
NUT CI farm migration considered this hosting option.

Still, there were community reports of various platforms including *BSD and
illumos working in practice (sometimes with caveats), which just needed some
special tinkering to run and to manage.  This chapter details how the NUT CI
farm VMs were set up on DigitalOcean.

//////////
// Originally documented at https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2192
//////////

OpenIndiana
~~~~~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


OmniOS
~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


FreeBSD
~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


OpenBSD
~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


Linux
~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

Commit message:

docs/ci-farm-do-setup.adoc: reword the intro
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

docs/ci-farm-do-setup.adoc, after:

Setting up the non-standard VM farm for NUT CI on DigitalOcean
--------------------------------------------------------------

Since 2023 the Network UPS Tools project employs virtual machines,
hosted and courteously sponsored as part of FOSS support program by
link:https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=d2fbf2b9e082&utm_campaign=Referral_Invite&utm_medium=Referral_Program&utm_source=badge[DigitalOcean],
for a significant part of the NUT CI farm based on a custom
link:https://www.jenkins.io/[Jenkins] setup.

Use of complete machines, virtual or not, in the NUT CI farm allows our
compatibility and non-regression testing to be truly multi-platform,
spanning various operating system technologies and even (sometimes
emulated) CPU architectures.

To that extent, while it is easy to deploy common OS images and manage the
resulting VMs, there are only so many images and platforms that are officially
supported by the hosting as general-purpose "DigitalOcean VPS Droplets", and
work with other operating systems is not easy. But not impossible, either.

In particular, while there is half a dozen Linux distributions offered out
of the box, official FreeBSD support was present earlier but abandoned shortly
before NUT CI farm migration from the defunct Fosshost.org considered this
hosting option.

Still, there were community reports of various platforms including *BSD and
illumos working in practice (sometimes with caveats), which just needed some
special tinkering to run and to manage.  This chapter details how the NUT CI
farm VMs were set up on DigitalOcean.

//////////
// Originally documented at https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2192
//////////

OpenIndiana
~~~~~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OI VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


OmniOS
~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OO VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


FreeBSD
~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-FREEBSD VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


OpenBSD
~~~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-OPENBSD VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text


Linux
~~~~~

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM OS transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text

DO-NUT-CI-LINUX VM preparation as build agent
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO: Text
