docs/qa-guide.adoc, before:

NUT Quality Assurance Guide
===========================
:Author: Jim_Klimov
:Author Initials: JK

WARNING: This is a Work In Progress document.

Abstract
--------

The aim of this document is to describe the different ways we ensure and
maintain the source code quality of Network UPS Tools, its portability to
various platforms, and non-regression.

Previous NUT releases may have included parts of this documentation in the
developer guide or user manual. Most of this information can be applied to
both automated testing environments and local development workflows.

[[nut-qa]]
include::nut-qa.txt[]

Code and recipe analysis
------------------------

[[CI_distcheck]]
GNU Autotools distcheck
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Static analysis by compilers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_shellcheck]]
Shell script checks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_spellcheck]]
Documentation spelling checks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.


Test automation
---------------

[[CI_BUILD_SH]]
The ci_build.sh script
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Test programs in NUT codebase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[NIT]]
NUT Integration Testing suite (NIT)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[NUTCI_farm]]
Continuous Integration (NUT CI farm)
------------------------------------

FIXME: Write the chapter intro text.

Multiple FOSS CI providers and technologies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Jenkins is the way
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* https://stories.jenkins.io/user-story/jenkins-is-the-way-for-networkupstools/
* https://github.com/jenkins-infra/stories/blob/main/src/user-story/jenkins-is-the-way-for-networkupstools/index.yaml

[[Jenkins_Dynamatrix_Library]]
The jenkins-dynamatrix library
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[Jenkins_Dynamatrix_Pipeline]]
Jenkinsfile-dynamatrix cases in NUT sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_VM_DigitalOcean]]
Custom NUT CI farm build agents: VMs on DigitalOcean
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Installation of VMs on Digital Ocean
  - Pick details from https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2192

[[CI_LXC]]
Custom NUT CI farm build agents: LXC containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section details configuration of LXC containers as build environments
for NUT CI farm; this approach can also be used on developer workstations.

/////////////////////
// Note: while docs recommend relative offsets or using them as parameters
// to the include macro, this is a feature of asciidoctor - not asciidoc-py
// (older implementation) that we rely on in most operating systems:
// https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/directives/include-with-leveloffset/
//
// So we resort to absolute offsets (as explicitly not recommended) in the
// document itself, that `Title.level` handling in the older code base supports:
// https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py/blob/main/asciidoc/asciidoc.py#L1775
/////////////////////

:leveloffset: 1

include::ci-farm-lxc-setup.txt[]

:leveloffset: 0

[[Config_Prereqs]]
NUT build prerequisites
-----------------------

:leveloffset: 1

include::config-prereqs.txt[]

:leveloffset: 0

Commit message:

docs/user-manual.txt et al: drop chapters with config-prereqs.txt and ci-farm-lxc-setup.txt, refer to qa-guide now (also from other docs) [#2832]
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

docs/qa-guide.adoc, after:

NUT Quality Assurance Guide
===========================
:Author: Jim_Klimov
:Author Initials: JK

WARNING: This is a Work In Progress document.

Abstract
--------

The aim of this document is to describe the different ways we ensure and
maintain the source code quality of Network UPS Tools, its portability to
various platforms, and non-regression.

Previous NUT releases may have included parts of this documentation in the
developer guide or user manual. Most of this information can be applied to
both automated testing environments and local development workflows.

[[nut-qa]]
include::nut-qa.txt[]

Code and recipe analysis
------------------------

[[CI_distcheck]]
GNU Autotools distcheck
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Static analysis by compilers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_shellcheck]]
Shell script checks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_spellcheck]]
Documentation spelling checks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.


Test automation
---------------

[[CI_BUILD_SH]]
The ci_build.sh script
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Test programs in NUT codebase
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[NIT]]
NUT Integration Testing suite (NIT)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[NUTCI_farm]]
Continuous Integration (NUT CI farm)
------------------------------------

[[CI_Farm_Notes]]
CI Farm configuration notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NOTE: This chapter contains information about NUT CI farm setup tricks
that were applied at different times by the maintainer team to ensure
regular builds and tests of the codebase.  Whether these are used in
daily production today or not, similar setup should be possible locally
on developer and contributor machines.

Multiple FOSS CI providers and technologies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

Jenkins is the way
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* https://stories.jenkins.io/user-story/jenkins-is-the-way-for-networkupstools/
* https://github.com/jenkins-infra/stories/blob/main/src/user-story/jenkins-is-the-way-for-networkupstools/index.yaml

[[Jenkins_Dynamatrix_Library]]
The jenkins-dynamatrix library
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[Jenkins_Dynamatrix_Pipeline]]
Jenkinsfile-dynamatrix cases in NUT sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

FIXME: Write the chapter text.

[[CI_VM_DigitalOcean]]
Custom NUT CI farm build agents: VMs on DigitalOcean
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Installation of VMs on Digital Ocean
  - Pick details from https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2192

[[CI_LXC]]
Custom NUT CI farm build agents: LXC containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This section details configuration of LXC containers as build environments
for NUT CI farm; this approach can also be used on developer workstations.

/////////////////////
// Note: while docs recommend relative offsets or using them as parameters
// to the include macro, this is a feature of asciidoctor - not asciidoc-py
// (older implementation) that we rely on in most operating systems:
// https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/directives/include-with-leveloffset/
//
// So we resort to absolute offsets (as explicitly not recommended) in the
// document itself, that `Title.level` handling in the older code base supports:
// https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py/blob/main/asciidoc/asciidoc.py#L1775
/////////////////////

:leveloffset: 1

include::ci-farm-lxc-setup.txt[]

:leveloffset: 0

[[NUT_Config_Prereqs]]
Prerequisites for building NUT on different OSes
------------------------------------------------

:leveloffset: 1

include::config-prereqs.txt[]

:leveloffset: 0
