scripts/fuse/README.adoc, before:

NUT access via FUSE
===================

After a discussion with friends about the
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_in_Userspace[FUSE] technology
an idea resurfaced, to have NUT readings available as filesystem objects.

Previously this was vaguely envisioned as a sort of `/dev/shm` on Linux or
equivalent on other OSes (where SHM is available with a filesystem API).
But FUSE being more portable, it is actually a better bet for this approach.

* https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2591

NUT access via execfuse
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For a proof-of-concept, the link:https://github.com/vi/execfuse[execfuse]
seemed appropriate. It is a daemon which knows to call user-provided programs
to handle certain filesystem API requests. Essentially, shell scripts exposed
as a file system!

Sure, it is not very efficient or perhaps even secure, but for quick and dirty
experiments it proved to be great! Relatively easy to debug the new code by
saving log files, and quick to iterate by editing the shell scripts (no need
to rebuild and restart a daemon).

Installation:

* Get pre-requisites to build FUSE clients, e.g. `apt install libfuse-dev`
  on Debian-like systems, or `brew install --cask macfuse@dev` on MacOS with
  Homebrew community packaging.
* Download and build the `execfuse` daemon:
----
:; git clone https://github.com/vi/execfuse
:; cd execfuse
:; make && ls -la execfuse
----

That's about it, an `execfuse` binary should appear.

To run with the PoC scripts here, assuming a built NUT in `~/nut` location:

----
:; mkdir -p /tmp/nut-fuse
:; PATH="$HOME/nut/clients:$PATH" \
   ./execfuse "$HOME/nut/scripts/fuse/execfuse-nut" /tmp/nut-fuse
----

Then as you walk the `/tmp/nut-fuse` location, you would see a sub-directory
called `by-server` under which a `localhost:3493` is exposed and any token
(even if not visible) can be accessed with the naive assumption that it is
a hostname/IP address and an optional port.

Either way, this token is also treated as a directory, assuming it is a
device name known to the data server `upsd` on that host. In fact, this
directory would be populated by `upsc -l` of that host(:port) automatically.

Each device represented this way is also a "directory", with "files" in it
populated by `upsc` queries to list the currently known variables, and file
contents populated by `upsc` queries for that variable name at that device
on that server.

Example data walk:

----
:; grep -rH /tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.charge:100
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.charge.low:20
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.runtime:1456
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.type:PbAc
...
----

As another experiment, a root-directory pseudo-file was added to reveal
the `upsc` client location and version used in the queries, just for kicks:

----
:; ls -la /tmp/nut-fuse
total 23
drwxr-xr-x  16 root root  4096 Jan  1  1970 .
drwxrwxrwt 154 root root 20480 Aug 13 23:55 ..
drwxr-xr-x  16 root root  4096 Jan  1  1970 by-server
-r--r--r--   1 root root     0 Jan  1  1970 client-version

:; cat /tmp/nut-fuse/client-version
/home/abuild/nut/clients/upsc
Network UPS Tools upsc 2.8.2.901.2-903-g533aa7eaf (development iteration after 2.8.2)
----

Eventually, to stop this experiment:

----
:; fusermount -u /tmp/nut-fuse

# Or if user-land programs are missing, like in "macfuse@dev", just `umount`:
:; umount /tmp/nut-fuse
----

As far as a PoC goes, this is already a fun and quickly achieved result,
although for production use something like a FUSE-capable `upsmon`-like
client would be needed both for efficiency (to avoid dozens of process
forks and networked queries to get each reading), and to deal with security
somehow (for a shot at `upsrw` and `upscmd` equivalents).

Hope this helps get the real development going,
Jim Klimov

Commit message:

scripts/fuse/README.adoc, scripts/fuse/execfuse-nut/readdir: integrate with NIT-prepared environments [#2591]
Signed-off-by: Jim Klimov <jimklimov+nut@gmail.com>

scripts/fuse/README.adoc, after:

NUT access via FUSE
===================

After a discussion with friends about the
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_in_Userspace[FUSE] technology
an idea resurfaced, to have NUT readings available as filesystem objects.

Previously this was vaguely envisioned as a sort of `/dev/shm` on Linux or
equivalent on other OSes (where SHM is available with a filesystem API).
But FUSE being more portable, it is actually a better bet for this approach.

* https://github.com/networkupstools/nut/issues/2591

NUT access via execfuse
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For a proof-of-concept, the link:https://github.com/vi/execfuse[execfuse]
seemed appropriate. It is a daemon which knows to call user-provided programs
to handle certain filesystem API requests. Essentially, shell scripts exposed
as a file system!

Sure, it is not very efficient or perhaps even secure, but for quick and dirty
experiments it proved to be great! Relatively easy to debug the new code by
saving log files, and quick to iterate by editing the shell scripts (no need
to rebuild and restart a daemon).

Installation:

* Get pre-requisites to build FUSE clients, e.g. `apt install libfuse-dev`
  on Debian-like systems, or `brew install --cask macfuse@dev` on MacOS with
  Homebrew community packaging.
* Download and build the `execfuse` daemon:
----
:; git clone https://github.com/vi/execfuse
:; cd execfuse
:; make && ls -la execfuse
----

That's about it, an `execfuse` binary should appear.

NOTE: Examples below assume a built NUT in `~/nut` location, and a temporary
mount point in `/tmp/nut-fuse`.

You can also prepare an enviroment using NUT Integration Tests (NIT) scripts:
----
:; ( cd ~/nut && DEBUG_SLEEP=600 make check-NIT ) &

# ...wait a few seconds for it to say the sandbox is ready
:; . "${HOME}/nut/tests/NIT/tmp/etc/NIT.env"
----

Before mounting the FUSE file system, you can also request to debug the PoC
scripts:
----
:; NUT_DEBUG_FUSE=true
:; export NUT_DEBUG_FUSE

# After running some queries, so the log-files to watch appear:
:; tail -F /tmp/nut-debug-fuse-*.log &
----

To run with the PoC scripts here:

----
:; mkdir -p /tmp/nut-fuse
:; PATH="$HOME/nut/clients:$PATH" \
   ./execfuse "$HOME/nut/scripts/fuse/execfuse-nut" /tmp/nut-fuse
----

Then as you walk the `/tmp/nut-fuse` location, you would see a sub-directory
called `by-server` under which a `localhost:3493` is exposed and any token
(even if not visible) can be accessed with the naive assumption that it is
a hostname/IP address and an optional port.

Either way, this token is also treated as a directory, assuming it is a
device name known to the data server `upsd` on that host. In fact, this
directory would be populated by `upsc -l` of that host(:port) automatically.

Each device represented this way is also a "directory", with "files" in it
populated by `upsc` queries to list the currently known variables, and file
contents populated by `upsc` queries for that variable name at that device
on that server.

Example data walk:

----
:; grep -rH /tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.charge:100
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.charge.low:20
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.runtime:1456
/tmp/nut-fuse/localhost/dummy/battery.type:PbAc
...
----

As another experiment, a root-directory pseudo-file was added to reveal
the `upsc` client location and version used in the queries, just for kicks:

----
:; ls -la /tmp/nut-fuse
total 23
drwxr-xr-x  16 root root  4096 Jan  1  1970 .
drwxrwxrwt 154 root root 20480 Aug 13 23:55 ..
drwxr-xr-x  16 root root  4096 Jan  1  1970 by-server
-r--r--r--   1 root root     0 Jan  1  1970 client-version

:; cat /tmp/nut-fuse/client-version
/home/abuild/nut/clients/upsc
Network UPS Tools upsc 2.8.2.901.2-903-g533aa7eaf (development iteration after 2.8.2)
----

Eventually, to stop this experiment:

----
:; fusermount -u /tmp/nut-fuse

# Or if user-land programs are missing, like in "macfuse@dev", just `umount`:
:; umount /tmp/nut-fuse
----

As far as a PoC goes, this is already a fun and quickly achieved result,
although for production use something like a FUSE-capable `upsmon`-like
client would be needed both for efficiency (to avoid dozens of process
forks and networked queries to get each reading), and to deal with security
somehow (for a shot at `upsrw` and `upscmd` equivalents).

Hope this helps get the real development going,
Jim Klimov
